Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEVVS. 267

CHAP. VII.

How Crassus came into Judea, and pillaged- the temple; and. then

marched against the Parthians, and perished, with his army.

Also hffw Cassius obtained. Syria ,' and put a stop to the Par­

thians, and then went up to Judea.

§ 1. IS ow Crassus, as he was going upon his expedition

against the Parthians, came into Judea, and carried off the

money that was in the temple, which Pompey had left: being

two thousand talents, and was disposed to spoil it of all the gold

belonging to it, which was eight thousand talents. He also

took a beam, which was made of solid beaten gold, of the weight

of three hundred minae; each of which weighed two pounds and

an half. It was the priest who was guardian of the sacred trea­

sures, and whose name was Elcazar, that gave him this beam,

not out of a wicked design, for he was a good and a righteous

man, but being intrusted with the custody of the veils belonging

to the temple, which were of admirable beauty, and of very

costly workmanship, and hung down from this beam, when he

saw that Crassus was busy in gathering money, and was in fear

for the entire ornaments of the temple, he gave him this beam

of gold as a ransom for the whole, but this not till he had given

his oath that he would remove nothing else out of the temple,

but be satisfied with this only, which he should give him, being

worth many ten thousand [shekels.] Now, this beam was con­

tained in a wooden beam that was hollow; but was known to no

others, but Eleazar alone knew it; yet did Crassus take away

this beam, upon the condition of touching nothing else that be­

longed to the temple, and then brake his oath, and carried away

all the gold that was in the temple.

2. And let no one wonder that there was so much wealth in

our temple, since all the Jews throughout the habitable earth,

and those that worshipped God, nay, even those of Asia and Eu­

rope, sent their contributions to it, and this from very ancient

times. Nor is the largeness of these sums without its attesta­

tion; nor is that greatness owing to our vanity, as raising it

without ground to so great a height: But there are many wit­

nesses to it, and particularly Strabo of Cappadocia, who says thus;

"Mithridates sent to Cos, and took the money which queen

"Cleopatra had deposited there, as also eight hundred talents

"belonging to the Jews." Now, we have no public money'

but only what appertains to God; and it is evident that the

Asian Jews removed this money out of fear of Mithridates, for

it is not probable that those of Judea, who had a strong city and

VOL. JI. it 23

