14 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

"me, my lord," while he thought that she was about to ask for

somewhat to eat, he imprecated God's curse upon her, and

said, "he had neither threshing-floor, nor wine-press, whence he

"might give her any thing at her petition." Upon which she

said, " She did not desire his aid in any such thing, nor trouble

"him about food, but desired that he would do her justice as to

"another woman." And when he bade her say on, and let him

know what she desired, she said, "She had made an agreement

"with the other woman, who was her neighbour and her friend,

"that because the famine and want was intolerable, they should

"kill their children, each of them having a son of their own,

"and we will live upon them ourselves for two days, the one day

"upon one son, and the other day upon the other: and, said she,

"I have killed my son the first day, and we lived upon my son

"yesterday, but this other woman will not do the same thing,

"but hath broken her agreement, and hath hid her son." This

story mightily grieved Joram when he heard it; so he rent

his garment, and cried out with a loud voice, and conceived great

wrath against Elisha the prophet, and set himself eagerly to have

him slain, because he did not pray to God to provide them some

exit and way of escape out of the miseries with which they

were surrounded, and sent one away immediately to cut off his

head, who made haste to kill the prophet; but Elisha was not un­

acquainted with the wrath of the king against him; for as he

sat in his house by himself, with none but his disciples about him,

he told them, that Joram, * who was the son of a murderer, had

sent one to take away his head; but, said he, "when he that is

"commanded to do this comes, take care that ye do not let him

"come in, but press the door against him, and hold him fast

"there, for the king himself will follow him, and come

"to me having altered his mind." Accordingly, they did as

they were bidden, when he that was sent by the king to kill

Elisha came; but Joram repented of his wrath against the

prophet, and for fear he that was commanded to kill him

should have done it before he came, he made haste to hinder his

slaughter, and to save the prophet: and when he came to him,

he accused him that he did not pray to God for their deliverance

from the miseries they lay now under, but saw them so sadly de­

stroyed by them. Hereupon Elisha promised, that the very next

* This son of a murderer was Joram, the son of Ahab, which Ahab slew, or  
permitted his wife Jezebel to slay the Lord's prophets, and Naboth, I Kings

xviii. 4. xxi. 19. and he is here called by this name, I suppose, because he
had

now also himself sent an officer to murder him; yet is Josephus' account of

Joram's coming himself at tast, as repenting of his intended cruelty, much

more probable than that in our copies, 2 Kings vi. 33. which rather implies
the

contrary.

