Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

"ties be taken from their proper receivers, I farther enjoin, that

"the same be exactly returned to the Jews in that place."

6. " Caius Norbanus Flaccus, proconsul, to the magistrates

"of the Sardians, sendeth greeting: Caesar hath written to me,

"and commanded me not to forbid the Jews, how many soever

"they be, from assembling together according to the custom of

"their forefathers, nor from sending their money to Jerusalem:

"I have therefore written to you, that you may know that both

"Caesar and I would have you act accordingly."

7. Nor did Julius Antonius, the proconsul, write otherwise,

"To the magistrates, senate, and people of the Ephesians, send-

"eth greeting: As I was dispensing justice at Ephesus, on the

"ides of February, the Jews that dwell in Asia demonstrated

"to me, that Augustus and Agrippa had permitted them to

"use their own laws and customs, and to offer those their first

"fruits -which every one of them freely offers to the Deity on

"account of piety, and to carry them in a company together

"to Jerusalem without disturbance. They also petitioned me,

"that I also would confirm what had been granted by Augus-

"tus and Agrippa by my own sanction. I would therefore

"have you take notice, that according to the will of Augustus

"and Agrippa, I permit them to use and do according to the

"customs of their forefathers without disturbance."

8. I have been obliged to set down these decrees, because the

present history of our own acts will go generally among the

Greeks; and I have hereby demonstrated to them that we have

formerly been in great esteem, and have not been prohibited by

those governors we were under from keeping any of the laws of

our forefathers; nay, that we have been supported by them,

while we followed our own religion, and the worship we paid

to God: and I frequently make mention of these decrees, in or­

der to reconcile other people to us, and to take away the causes

of that hatred which unreasonable men bear to us. As for our

* customs, there is no nation which always makes use of the  
same, and in every city almost we meet with them different

from one another; but natural justice is most agreeable to the

advantage of all men equally, both Greeks and Barbarians, to

which our laws have the greatest regard, and thereby render us,

if we abide in them after a pure manner, benevolent and friendly

* The remaining part of this chapter is a remarkable one, as justly distinguish­  
ing natural justice, religion, and morality, from positive institutions in all

countries, and evidently preferring the former before the latter, as did the
true

prophets of Ood always under the Old Testament, and Christ and his Apostles

always under the New; whence our Josephns seems to have been at this time

nearer Christianity than wen. th* Scrifces and Pharisees ot his age, who, as
w«

know from the New Testament, v«re entirely of a different opinion and
practice.

