Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 319

was still going on, and forced the country to lie still uncultivated,

since we are forbidden to sow our land in that year. Now when

Antony had received Antigonus as his captive, he determined

to keep him against his triumph; but when he heard that the na­

tion grew seditious, and that, out of their hatred to Herod,

they continued to bear good-will to Antigonus, he resolved to

behead him at Antioch, for otherwise the Jews could no way

be brought to be quiet. And Strabo of Cappadocia attests to

what I have said, when he thus speaks: "Antony ordered An-

"tigonus the Jew to be brought to Antioch, and there to be

"beheaded: And this Antony seems to me to have been the

"very first man who beheaded a king, as supposing he could

"no other way bend the minds of the Jews, so as to receive He-

"rod, whom he had made king in his stead, for by no torments

"could they be forced to call him king, so great a fondness

"they had for their former king; so he thought that this dis-

"honourable death would diminish the value they had for An-

"tigonus' memory, and at the same time would diminish their

"hatred they bare to Herod." Thus far Strabo.

CHAP. II.

Hem Hyrcanus was set at liberty by the Parthians, and returned

to Herod; and what Alexandra did when she heard that Ana-

nelus was made high priest.

} 1. .N ow after Herod was in possession of the kingdom,

Hyrcanus the high priest, who was then a captive among the

Parthians, came to him again, and was set free from his captivi­

ty, in the manner following: Barzapharnes and Pocorus, the

generals of the Parthians, took Hyrcanus, who was first made

high priest and afterward king, and Herod's brother, Phasaelus,

captives, and were carrying them away into Parthia. Phasaelus

indeed could not bear the reproach of being in bonds, and think­

ing that death with glory was better than any life whatsoever,

he became his own executioner, as I have formerly related.

2. But when Hyrcanus was brought into Parthia, the king

Phraates treated him after a very gentle manner, as having al­

ready learned of what an illustrious family he was; on which

account he set him free from his bonds, and gave him a habi­

tation at * Babylon, where there was Jews in great numbers.

* The city here called Babylon by Josephus, seems to be one which was built by  
some of the Seleucidse upon the Tigris, which long after the utter destruction
of old

Babylon was commonly so called, and I suppose not far from Seleucia; just as
the

latter adjoining city Bngdat lias been, and is often called by the came old
name of

Babylon till this very day.

