W AWFJO^rFMKS OP THE JEWS, Book X,

that he had raised over against the walls were of a great height,

and when he was ready to make an immediate assault upon them,

but heard that Tirhaka, king of the Ethiopians, was coming and

bringing great forces to aid the Egyptians, and was resolved to

march through tfie desart, and so to fall directly upon the Assy足

rians, this king Sennacherib was disturbed at the news, and, as I

said before, left Pelusium, and returned back without- success.

Now concerning this Sennacherib, Herodotus also says, in the

second book of his histories, "How this King came against the

a Egyptian king, who was the priest of Vulcan, and that as he

"was besieging Pelusium, he broke up the siege on the follow-

"ing occasion; this Egyptian priest prayed to God, and God

rt heard his prayer, and sent a judgment upon the Arabian king,"

But in this Herodotus was mistaken when he called this king

Hot king of the Assyrians, but of the Arabians; for he saith,

that " a multitude of mice gnawed to pieces in one night both

'* the bows and the rest of the armour of the Assyrians, and that

44 it was on that account that the king, when he had no bows

"left, drew off his army from Pelusium." And'Herodotus does

indeed give us this history; nay, and Berosus, who wrote of the

affairs of Chaldea, makes mention of this king Sennacherib, and

that he ruled over the Assyrians, and that he made an expedi足

tion against all Asia and Egypt; and * says thus:

3. "Now when Sennacherib was returning from his Egyp-

"tian war to Jerusalem, he found his army under Rabshakeh

"his general, in danger [by a plague], for God had sent a pes-

"tilential distemper upon his qrmy; and on the very first night

K of the siege, a hundred fourscore and five thousand, with their

w captains and general's, were destroyed: So the king was in a

"great dread, and in a terrible agony at this calamity; and being

"in great fear for his whole army, he fled with the rest of his

"forces to his own kingdom, and to his city Nineveh: And

"when he had abode there a little while, he was treacherously

"assaulted, and died by the hands of his elder sons f Adram-

** melech and Seraser; and was slam in his own temple, which was  
"called Araske. Now these sons of his were driven away on

"account of the murder of their father by the citizens, and

** went into Armenia, while Assarachoddas took the kingdom of

- * That this terrible calamity of the slaughter of the 185,000 Assyrians is here de足  
livered in the words of Berosus the Chaldean; and that it was certainly and
fre足

quently foretold by the Jewish prophets, and that it was certainly and
undeniably

accomplished, see Authentic. Kec. part II. page 858.

f We are here to take notice, that these two sons of Sennacherib, that ran
away

into Armenia, became the heads of two famous families there, the Arzcrunii and

Genunii; of which see the particular histories iu Moses Choreuensis, p. 60.

