Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. i.'09

against Jonathan, to a concern for his own preservation : for he

now returned out of Arabia into Syria, with the child Antio­

chus, for he was in age but a youth, and put the diadem on

his head: And as the whole forces that had left Demetrius, be­

cause they had no pay, came to his assistance, he made war upon

Demetrius, and joining battle with him, overcame him in the

fight, and took from him both his elephants and the city Antioch.

4. Demetrius, upon this defeat, retired into Cilicia: but the

child Antiochus sent ambassadors, and an epistle to Jonathan,

and made him his friend and confederate, and confirmed to him

the high priesthood, and yielded up to him the four prefectures

which had been added to Judea. Moreover he sent him vessels

and cups of gold, and a purple garment; and gave him leave to

use them. He also presented him with a golden button, and

styled him one of his principal friends, and appointed his bro­

ther Simon to be the general over the forces, from the ladder of

Tyre unto Egypt. So Jonathan was so well pleased with these

grants made him by Antiochus, that he sent ambassadors to

him, and to Trypho, and professed himself to be their friend

and confederate, and said he would join with him in a war

against Demetrius, informing him that he had made no proper

returns for the kindnesses he had done him; for that when he

had received many marks of kindness from him, when he stood

in great need of them, he for such good turns, had requited

him -with further injuries.

5. So Antiochus gave Jonathan leave to raise himself a nu­

merous army out of Syria and Phenicia, and to make war against

Demetrius' generals; whereupon he went in haste to the seve­

ral cities, which received him splendidly indeed, but put no

forces into his hands. And when he was come from thence to

Askelon, the inhabitants of Askelon came and brought him pre­

sents, and met him in a splendid manner. He exhorted them,

and every one of the cities of Celesyria, to forsake Demetrius,

and to join with Antiochus; and in assisting him, to endeavour

to punish Demetrius for what offences he had been guilty of

against themselves; and told them there were many reasons for

that their procedure, if they had a mind so to do. And when he

had persuaded those cities to promise their assistance to Antio­

chus, he came to Gaza, in order to induce them also to be friends

to Antiochus; but he found the inhabitants of Gaza much more

alienated from him than he expected, for they had shut their

gates against him, and although they had deserted Demetrius,

they had not resolved to join themselves to Antiochus. This

provoked Jonathan to besiege them, and to harass their country,

for as he set a part of his army round about Gaza, itself, so with

the rest he overran their land, and spoiled it, and burnt what

