Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 337

"treat about doing what is right. And when such have been

"their actions, how is it possible they can either live securely

"in common life, or be successful in war? in my opinion this is

"impossible; but perhaps some will say, that what is holy and

"what is righteous, is indeed on our side, but the Arabians

"are either more courageous, or more numerous than we are.

"Now, as to this, in the first place, it is not fit for us to say so,

"for with whom is what is righteous, with them is God him-

"self; now, where God is, there is both multitude and courage.

"But to examine our own circumstances a little, we were con-

"querors in the first battle; and when we fought again, they

"were not able to oppose us, but ran away, and could not en-

"dure our attacks, or our courage; but when we had conquered

"them, then came Athenion, and made war against us with-

"out declaring it; and pray, is this an instance of their man-

"hood? or is it not a second instance of their wickedness and

"treachery? Why are we therefore of less courage, on account

*' of that which ought to inspire us with stronger hopes? and  
M why are we terrified at these, who, when they fight upon the

"level, are continually beaten, and when they seem to be con-

"querors, they gain it by wickedness? and if we suppose

"that any one should deem them to be men of real courage, will

"not he be excited by that very consideration to do his utmost

"against them? for true valour is not shown by fighting against

"weak persons, but in being able to overcome the most hardy.

"But then, if the distresses we are ourselves under, and the mi-

"series that hath come by the earthquake, hath affrighted any

"one, let him consider in the first place, that this very thing

"will deceive the Arabians, by their supposal that what hath

"befallen us is greater than it really is. Moreover, it is not

"right that the same thing that emboldens them should discour-

"age us; for these men, you see, do not derive their alacrity

"from any advantageous virtue of their own, but from their

"hope, as to us, that we are quite cast down by our misfbr-

"tunes; but when we boldly march against them, we shall soon

"pull down their insolent conceit of themselves, and shall gain

"this by attacking them, that they will not be so insolent when

"we come to the battle, for our distresses are not so great, nci

"is what hath happened an indication of the anger of God

"against us, as some imagine, for such things are accidental, and

"adversities that come in the usual course of things; and if we

"allow that this was done by the will of God, we must al-

"low that it is now over by his will also, and that he is satis-

"fied with what hath already happened, for'had he been willing

"to afflict us still more thereby, he had not changed his mind

"so soon. And as for the war we are engaged in, he hath him-

"self demonstrated, that he is willing it should go on, and that

