121 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XT.

any one prepares against another, he without knowing of it,

first contrives it against himself.

12. Wherefore Haman, who had immoderately abused the ho­

nour he had from the king, was destroyed after this manner, and

the king granted his estate to the queen. He also called for Mor-

decai, (for Esther had informed him that she was akin to him)

and gave that ring to Mordecai which he had before given to

Haman. The queen also gave Haman's estate to Mordecai; and

prayed the king to deliver the nation of the Jews from the fear

of death, and showed him what had been written over all

the country by Haman the son of Ammedatha: for that if

her country were destroyed, and her countrymen were to

perish, she could not bear to live herself any longer. So the

king promised her, that he could not do any thing that should

be disagreeable to her, nor contradict what she desired, but he

bid her write what she pleased about the Jews, in the king's

name, and seal it with his seal, and send it to all his kingdom,

for that those who read epistles whose authority is secured by

having the king's seal to them, would no way contradict what

was written therein. So he commanded the king's scribes to be

sent for, and to write to the nations on the Jews' behalf, and to

his lieutenants and governors, that were over his hundred twen­

ty and seven provinces, from India to Ethiopia. Now the con­

tents of this epistle were these: "* The great king Artaxerxes

"to our rulers, and those that are our faithful subjects, sendeth

"greeting: many men there are, who, on account of the great-

a ness of the benefits bestowed on them, and because of the ho-

"nour which they have obtained from the wonderful kind treat-

"ment of those that bestowed it, are not only injurious to their

"inferiors, but do not scruple to do evil to those that have been

"their benefactors, as if they would take away gratitude from

"among men, and by their insolent abuse of such benefits as they

"never expected, they turn the abundance they have against

"those that are the authors of it, and suppose they shall lie con-

"cealed from God in that case, and avoid that vengeance which

"comes from him. Some of these men, when they have had

"the management of affairs committed to them by their friends,

"and bearing private malice of their own against some others,

"by deceiving those that have the power, persuade them to be

"angry at such as have done them no harm, till they are in

* The true reason why king Artaxerxes did not here properly revoke his former  
barbarous decree for the universal slaughter of the Jews, but only empowered
and

encouraged the Jews to fight for their lives, to kill their enemies, if they
attempted

their destruction, seems to have been that old law of the Mules and Persians,
nut

yet laid aside, that whatever decree was signed both by the king and his
lords,

could not be changed, but remained unalterable, Daniel vi. 7, 8, 9, 12, 15,
17.

Esther i. 19. and viii. 8. And Haman having engrossed the royal favour, might

perhaps have himself signed this decree for the Jews' slaughter instead of the
anciiut

lords, and so might have rendered it by their rules irrevocable.

