Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 175

hewn with iron tools. So on the five and twentieth day of the

month Casleu, which the Macedonians call Apelleus, they lighted

the lamps that were on the candlestick, and offered incense upon

the [altar of incense], and laid the loaves upon the table [of

shew-bread,] and offered burnt-offerings upon the new altar [of

burnt-offering]. Now it so fell out, that these things were done

on the very same day on which their divine worship had fallen

off, and was reduced to a profane and common use, after three

years' time; for so it was, that the temple was made desolate by

Antiochus, and so continued for three years. This desolation

happened to the temple in the hundred forty and fifth year, on

the twenty-fifth day of the month Apelleus, and on the hundred

fifty and third Olympiad: but it was dedicated anew, on the

same day, the twenty-fifth of the month Apelleus, on the hun­

dred and forty-eight year, and on the hundred and fifty-fourth

Olympiad. And this declaration came to pass according to the

prophecy of Daniel which was given four hundred and eight

years before; for he declared that the Macedonians would dis­

solve that worship [for some time.]

7. Now Judas celebrated the festival of the restoration of the

sacrifices of the temple for eight days; and omitted no sort of

pleasures thereon; but he feasted them upon very rich and splen­

did sacrifices.; and he honoured God, and delighted them by

hymns and psalms. Nay, they were so very glad at the revival

of their customs, when, after a long time of intermission, they

unexpectedly had regained the freedom of their worship, that

they made it a law for their posterity, that they should keep a

festival on account of the restoration of their temple worship, for

eight days. And from that time to this we celebrate this festival,

and call it Lights. I suppose the reason was, because this liberty

beyond our hopes appeared to us; and that thence was the name

given to the festival. Judas also rebuilt the walls round about

the city; and reared towers of great height against the incursions

of enemies; and set guards therein. He also fortified the city

Bethshura, that it might serve as a citadel against any distresses

that might come from our enemies.

CHAP. VIII.

Haw Judas subdued the nations round about; and how Simon beat

the people of Tyre and Ptolemais ', and how Judas overcame

Timotheus, and forced him to jfty away, and did many other

things, after Joseph and Azarias had been beaten.

$ 1. >THEN these things were over, the nations round

about the Jews were very uneasy at the revival of their power,

