Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JKWS. -&8

"once inhabited, and be entirely encompassed with walls, thoa

"wilt be excluded from thy passage to Celesyriaand Phenicia."

2. When Cambyses had read the epistle, being naturally

wicked, he was irritated at what they told him; and wrote back

to them as follows: "Cambyses the king, to Rathumus the

a historiographer, to Beeltethmus, to Semellius the scribe,

"and the rest that are in commission, and dwelling in Samaria

"and Phenicia, after this manner; I have read the epistle that

"was sent from you; and I gave order that the books of my

"forefathers should be searched into, and it is there found,

"that this city hath always been an enemy to Icings, and its in*

"habitants have raised seditions and wars. We also are sensi-

"ble that their kings have been powerful, and tyrannical, and

"have exacted tribute of Celesyria and PheHicia: Wherefore I

"give order that the Jews shall not be permitted to build that

"city, lest such mischief as they used to bring upon kings be

"greatly augmented." When this epistle was read, Rathumus,

and Semellius the scribe, and the;r-associates, got suddenly on

horseback, and made haste to Jerusalem; they also brought a

great company -with them,'and forbade the Jews to build the

city, and the temple. Accordingly, these works were 'hindered

from going on till the second year of the reign of Darius, for

nine years more; for Cambyses reigned six years, and within

that time overthrew Egypt, and when he was come back, he

died at Damascus.

CHAP. III.

How, offer the death of Cambyses, and the slaughter of the Magi,

but under the reign of Darius, Zorobabel was superior to the

rest in the solution of problems, and thereby obtained this fa­

vour of the king, that the temple should be built.

$ 1. AFTER the slaughter of the Magi, -who, upon the

death of Cambyses, attained the government of the Persian's

for a year, those families which were called the seven families

of the Persians, appointed Darius, the son of Hystaspes, to be

their king. Now he, while he was a private man, had made a

vow to God, that if he came to .be king, he would send all

the vessels of God that were in Babylon to the temple at Jeru­

salem. Now it so fell out, that about this time Zorobabel, who

had been made governor cf the Jews that iiad- been in captivity,

came to Darius, from Jerusalem: for there had been an old

friendship between him and the king. 'He was also, with two

others, thought worthy to be guards of the king's body; and ob­

tained that honour which he hoped for.

. 2. -Now in the first year of the king's reign, Darius feasted

