Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 63

advantage; but then his friends perverted him, arid dissuaded him

from vrhat the prophet advised, and obliged him to do what they

pleased. Ezekiel also foretold in Babylon what calamities were

coming upon the people, which when he heard, he sent accounts

of them into Jerusalem: But Zedekiah did not believe their pro­

phecies, for the reasons following: It happened that the two pro­

phets agreed with one another in what they said, as in all other

things, that the city should be taken, and Zedekiah himself should

be taken captive; but Ezekiel disagreed with him, and said that

"Zedekiah should not see Babylon," while Jeremiah said, to

him, That " the king of Babylon should carry him away thither

"in bonds." And because they did not both say the same thing

as to this circumstance, he disbelieved what they both appeared

to agree in, and condemned them as not speaking truth therein,

although all the things foretold him did come to pass according

to their prophecies, as we shall show upon a fitter opportunity.

3. Now when Zedekiah preserved the league of mutual as­

sistance he had made with the Babylonians, for eight years, he

brake it, and revolted to the Egyptians, in hopes, by their as­

sistance, of overcoming the Babylonians. When the king of

Babylon knew this, he made war against him; he laid his

country waste, and took his fortified towns, and came to the city

Jerusalem itself to besiege it: But when the king of Egypt

heard what circumstances Zedekiah his ally was in, He took a

great army with him, and came into Judea, as if he would raise

the siege: upon which the king of Babylon departed from Jeru­

salem, and met the Egyptians, and joined battle with them, and

beat them, and when he had put them to flight, he pursued

them, and drove them out of all Syria. Now as soon as the

king of Babylon was departed from Jerusalem, the false prophets

deceived Zedekiah, and said, That " the king of Babylon would

"not any more make war against him or his people, nor remove

"them out of their own country into Babylon, and that those

"then in captivity would return, with all those vessels of the

"temple, of which the king of Babylon had despoiled that tem-

"pie." But Jeremiah came among them, and prophesied what

contradicted those predictions, and what proved to be true, That

"they did ill, and deluded the king; that the Egyptians would

"be of no advantage to them, but that the king of Babylon

"would renew the war against Jerusalem, and besiege it again,

"and would destroy the people by faminer and carry away those

"that remained into captivity, and would take away what they

"had as spoils, and would carry off those riches that were in

"the temple; nay, that, besides this, he would burn it, and ut-

"terly overthrow the city, and that they should serve him and

'his posterity seventy years; that then the Persians and the

