Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 163

Joseph, the people grew seditious, on account of his sons; For

'whereas the elders made war against Hyrcanus, who was the

youngest of Joseph's sons, the multitude was divided, but the

greater part joined with the elders in this war; as did Simon

the high priest, by reason he was of kin to them. However,

Hyrcanus determined not to return to Jerusalem any more,

but seated himself beyond Jordan; and was at perpetual war

with the Arabians, and slew many of them, and took many

of them captives. He also erected a strong castle, and built

it entirely of white stone to the very roof; and had ani­

mals of a prodigious magnitude engraven upon it. He also

drew round it a great and deep canal of water. He also made

caves of many furlongs in length, by hollowing a rock that was

over against him: and then he made large rooms in it, some for

feasting, and some for sleeping and living in. He introduced

also a vast quantity of waters which ran along it, and which were

very delightful and ornamental in the court. But still he made

the entrances at the mouth of the caves so narrow, that no more

than one person could enter by them at once: And the reason

why he built them after that manner was a good one; it was

for his own preservation, lest he should be besieged by his bre­

thren and run the hazard of being caught by them. Moreover,

he built courts of greater magnitude than ordinary, which he

adorned with vastly large gardens. And when he had brought

the place to this state, he named it Tyre. This place is between

Arabia and Judea, beyond Jordan, not far from the country of

Heshbon. And he ruled over those parts for seven years, even

all the time that Seleucus was king of Syria. But when he was

dead his brother Antiochus, who was called Epiphanes, took

the kingdom. Ptolemy also the king of Egypt, died, who was

besides called Epiphanes. He left two sons, and both young in

age; the elder of which was called Philometer, and the youngest

Physcon. As for Hyrcanus, when he saw that Antiochus had

a great army, and feared lest he should be caught by him, and

brought to punishment for what he had done to the Arabians,

he ended his life, by slaying himself with his own hand; while

Antiochus seized upon all his substance.

VOL. II. X 19

