Chap. XI . ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 289

lowing: Cecilius Bassus, one of Pompey's party, laid a treach­

erous design against Sextus Caesar, and slew him, and then

took his army, and got the management of public affairs into his

own hand; so there arose a great war about Apamia, while Cae­

sar's generals came against him with an army of horsemen and

footmen: To these Antipater also sent succours, and his sons

with them, as calling to mind the kindnesses they had received

from Caesar, and on that account he thought it but just to require

punishment for him, and to take vengeance on the man that had

murdered him. And as the war was drawn out into a great

length, Marcus came from Rome to take Sextus' government

upon him: But Caesar was slain by Cassius and Brutus in the

senate house, after he had retained the government three years

and six months. This fact, however, is related elsewhere.

2. As the war that arose upon the death of Caesar was now

begun, and the principal men were all gone, some one way, and

some another, to raise armies, Cassius came from Rome into

Syria, in order to receive the [army that lay in the] camp at

Apamia; and having raised the siege, he brought over both Bas­

sus and Marcus to his party. He then went over the cities, and

got together weapons and soldiers, and laid great taxes upon

those cities; and he chiefly oppressed Judea, and exacted of it

seven hundred talents: But Antipater, when he saw the state to

be in so great consternation and disorder, he divided the collec­

tion of that sum, and appointed his two sons to gather it, and

so that part of it was to be exacted by Malichus, who was

ill-disposed to him, and part by others. And because Herod

did exact what is required of him from Galilee before others,

he was in the greatest favour with Cassius; for he thought it a

part of prudence to cultivate a friendship with the Romans, and

to gain their good-will at the expense of others; whereas the

curators of the other cities, with their citizens, were sold for

slaves; and Cassius reduced four cities into slavery, the two

most potent of which were Gophna and Emmaus; and, besides

these, Lydia, and Thamna. Nay, Cassius was so very angry at

Malichus, that he had killed him, (for he assaulted him,) had

not Hyrcanus, by the means of Antipater, sent him a hun­

dred talents of his own, and thereby pacified his anger against

him.

3. But after Cassius was gone out of Judea, Malichus laid snares

for Antipater, as thinking that his death would be the preserva­

tion of Hyrcanus' government; But his design was not unknown

Roman historians require us to read Marcus in Josephus, and tliis perpetually,

l>oth in these Antiquities, and in the history of the Wars, as the learned
generally

•gree.

