136 ANTIQUITIES OF TH£ JEWS. Book XII.

the kingdom of Egypt, and held it forty years within one.

He procured the * law to be interpreted; and set free those that

were come from Jerusalem into Egypt, and were in slavery

there, who were an hundred and twenty thousand. The occa­

sion was this: Demetrius Phalerius, who was library keeper to

the king, was now endeavouring, if it were possible, to gather

together all the books that were in the habitable earth, and

buying whatsoever was any where valuable, or agreeable to

the king's inclination, (who was very earnestly set upon collect­

ing of books;) to which inclination of his Demetrius was zeal­

ously subservient. And when once Ptolemy asked him, How

many ten thousands of books he had collected? he replied, That

he had already about twenty times ten thousand, but that, in a

little time, he should have fifty times ten thousand. But he

said, he had been informed that there were many books of laws

among the Jews, worthy of inquiring after, and worthy of the

king's library, but which being written in characters and in a

dialect of their own, will cause no small pains in getting them

translated into the Greek tongue; that the character in which

they are written seems to be like to that which is the proper

character of the Syrians, and that its sound, when pronounced,

is like theirs also; and that this sound appears to be peculiar to

themselves. Wherefore he said, that nothing hindered, why

they might not get those books to be translated also, for while

nothing is wanting that is necessary for that purpose, we may

have their books also in this library. So the king thought that

Demetrius was very zealous to procure him abundance of-books,

and that he suggested what was exceeding proper for him to do;

and therefore he wrote to the Jewish high priest, that he should

'act accordingly.

2. Now there was one Aristeus, who was among the king's

most intimate friends, and on account of his modesty very

acceptable to him. This Aristeus resolved frequently, and that

before now, to petition the king, that he would set all the cap­

tive Jews in his kingdom free; and he thought this to be a con­

venient opportunity for the making that petition. So he dis­

coursed, in the first place, with the captains of the king's guards,

Sosibius of Tarentum, and Andreas; and persuaded them to

assist him in what he was going to intercede with the king for

* Of the translation of the other parts of the Old Testament by seventy Egyptian  
Jews, in the reign of Ptolemy the son of Lagus, and Philadelphia; as also of
the

