28 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEN'S. Book IX.

of the rebuilding the temple, he used this stratagem for collect­

ing the money, with which the multitude was pleased. He made

a wooden chest, and closed it up fast on all sides, but opened one

hole in it; he then set it in the temple beside the altar, and de­

sired every one to cast into it, through the hole, what he pleased,

for the repair of the temple. This contrivance was acceptable

to the people, and they strove one with another, and brought in

jointly large quantities of silver and gold: and when the scribe

and the priest that were over the treasuries had emptied the

chest, and counted the money in the king's presence, they then

set it in its former place, and thus did they every day. But

when the multitude appeared to have cast in as much as was

wanted, the high priest Jehoiada, and king Jehoash, sent to hire

masons and carpenters, and to buy large pieces of timber, and

of the most curious sort, and when they had repaired the tem­

ple, they made use of the remaining gold and silver, which was

not a little, for bowls, and basons, and cups, and other vessels,

and they went on to make the altar every day fat with sacrifices

of great value. And these things were taken suitable care of,

as long as Jehoiada Jived.

3. But as soon as he was dead, which was when he had lived

one hundred and thirty years, having been a righteous, nnd in

every respect, a very good man, he was buried in the king's se­

pulchre at Jerusalem, (because he had recovered the kingdom to

the family of David), king Jehoash betrayed his [want of] care

about God. The principal men of the people were corrupted

also together with him, and offended against their duty, and what

their constitution determined to be most for their good. Here­

upon God was displeased with the change that was made on the

king, and on the rest of the people; and sent prophets to testify

to them what their actions were, and to bring them to leave off

their wickedness: but they had gotten such a strong affection,

and so violent an inclination to it, that neither could the exam­

ples of those that had offered affronts to the laws, and had

been so severely punished, they and their entire families, nor

could the fear of what the prophets now foretold, bring them to

repentance, and turn them back from their course of transgres­

sion, to their former duty. But the king commanded that Za-

chariah, the son of the high priest Jehoiada, should be stoned to

death in the temple, and forgot the kindnesses he had received

from his father; for when God had appointed him to prophesy,

he stood in the midst of the multitude, and gave this counsel to

them and to the king, that they should act righteously, and fore­

told to them, that if they would not hearken to his admonitions,

they should suffer a heavy punishment: But as Zachariah was

ready to die, he appealed to God, as a witness of what he suffer-

