98 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL"

should be made at his own charges; and that the musical instf u-

ments which the Levites used in singing hymns to God should

be given them. Moreover he charged them, that portions of

land should be given to those that guarded the city and the tem­

ple, as also a determinate sum of money every year for their

maintenance: and withal he sent the vessels. And all that Cy­

rus intended to do before him relating to the restoration of Je­

rusalem, Darius also ordained should be done accordingly.

9. Now when Zorobabel had obtained these grants from the

king, he went out of the palace, and looking up to heaven, he

began to return thanks to God for the wisdom he had given him,

and the victory he had gained thereby, even- in the presence of

Darius himself; for, said he, "I had not been thought worthy

"of these advantages, O Lord, unless thou hadst been favour-

"able to me." When therefore he had returned these thanks to

God for the present circumstances he was in, and had prayed to

him to afford him the like favour for the time to come, he came

to Babylon, and brought the good news to his countrymen of

what grants he had procured for them from the king; who, when-

they heard the same, gave thanks also to God that he restored

the land of their forefathers to them again: So they betook them­

selves to drinking, and eating, and for seven days they continued

feasting, and kept a festival, for the rebuilding and restoration

of their country: after this they <-V-se themselves rulers, who

should go up to Jerusalem, out of i' '.ribes of their forefathers,

with their wives and children, and cattle, who travelled to Je­

rusalem with joy and pleasure, under the conduct of those whom

Darius sent along with them, and making a noise with songs,

and pipes, and cymbals. The rest of the Jewish multitude also

besides accompanied them with rejoicing,

10. And thus did these men go, a certain and determinate num-»

ber out of every family, though I do not think it proper to re-­

cite particularly the name of those families, that I may not take

off the mind of my readers from the connexion of the historical

fects, and make it hard for them to follow the coherence of my

narrations; but the sum of those that went up, above the age of

twelve years, of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, was * four

hundred sixty-two myriads and eight thousand; the Levites were

seventy-four : the number of the women and children mixed to­

gether was forty thousand seven hundred and forty-two; and be­

sides these, there were singers of the Levites one hundred and

* This strange reading in Josophns' present copies of 4,OOO,COO instead of  
40,000, is one of the grossest errors that is in them, and ought to be
corrected

from Ezra ii. 64. 1 Esd. v. 40. and Neb. vii. 66. who all agree the general
sum

was but about 42,360. It is also very plain, that Josephus thought, that when

Esdras afterwards brought up another company out of Babylon and Persia, in
tlie

