116 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL

he sent one to be with the king every day. So when he had ac­

companied with her, he sent her back to the eunuch: and when

Esther had come to him, he was pleased with her, and fell in

love with the damsel, and married her, and made her his lawful

wife, and kept a wedding feast for her on the twelfth month

of the seventh year of his reign, which was called Adar. He

also sent angari, as they are called, or messengers, unto every

nation, and gave orders that they should keep a feast for his

marriage, while he himself treated the Persians and the Medes,

and the principal men of the nations, for a whole month, on

account of this his marriage. Accordingly, Esther came to his

royal palace, and he set a diadem on her head: And thus was

Esther married, without making known to the king what na­

tion she was derived from. Her uncle also removed from Ba­

bylon to Shushan, and dwelt there, being every day about the

palace, and inquiring how the damsel did, for he loved her as-

thougjh she had been his own daughter.

3. Now the king had made * a law, that none of his own

people should approach him unless he were called, when he sat

upon his throne; men, with axes in their hands, stood round

about his throne, in order to punish such as approached to him

without being called. However, the king sat with a golden

sceptre in his hand, which he held out when he had a mind to

save any one of those that approached to him without being call­

ed: and he who touched it was free from danger. But of this-

matter we have discoursed sufficiently.

4. Some time after this [two eunuchs] Bigthan and Teresh-

plotted against the king; and Barnabazus, the servant of one of

the ennuchs, being by birth a Jew, was acquainted with their

conspiracy, and discovered it to the queen's uncle; and Mor-

decai, by the means of Esther, made the conspirators known to

the king. This troubled the king, but he discovered the truth,

and hanged the eunuchs upon a cross, while at that time he gave

no reward to Mordecai, who had been the occasion of his preser­

vation. He only bid the scribes to set down his name in the

records, and bid him stay in the palace, as an intimate friend of

the king's.

5. Now there was one Haman, the son of Amedatha, by birth

an Amalekite, that used to go. in to the king; and the foreigners

and Persians worshipped him, as Artaxerxes had commanded

* Herodotus says, that this law [against any one's coming uncalled to the kings  
of Persia when they were sitting on their thrones] was first enacted by
Deioces, i. e.

(by him who first withdrew tliu Medes from the dominion of the Assyrians, and

himself first reigned over them.) Thus also, says Spanheim, stood guards, with

their axes, about the throne of Tenus, Tenudus, that the offender might by
them be

punished immediately.

