176 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Bouk XII.

and rose up together, and destroyed many of them, as gaining

advantage over them by laying snares for them, and making se­

cret conspiracies against them. Judas made perpetual expedi­

tions against these men, and endeavoured to restrain them from

those incursions, and to prevent the mischiefs they did to the

Jews. So he fell upon the Idumeans, the posterity of Esau,

at Acrabattene, and slew a great many of them, and took their

spoils. He also shut up the sons of Bean, that laid wait for the

Jews, and he sat down about them, and besieged them, and burnt

their towers, and destroyed the men [that were in them]. Af­

ter this he went thence in haste against the Ammonites, who had

a great and a numerous army; of which Timotheus was the

commander. And when he had subdued them, he seized on the

city Jazer, and took their wives and their children captives, and

burnt the city, and then returned into Judea. But when the

neighbouring nations understood that he was returned, they got

together in great numbers, in the land of Gilead, and came

against those Jews that were at their borders, who then fled to

the garrison of Dametha; and sent to Judas to inform him that

Timotheus was endeavouring to take the place whither they

were fled. And as these epistles were reading, there came other

messengers out of Galilee, who informed him that the inhabitants

of Ptolemais, and of Tyre and Sidon, and strangers of Galilee,

were gotten together.

2. Accordingly Judas, upon considering what was fit to be

done, with relation to the necessity both these cases required,

gave order that Simon his brother should take three thousand

chosen men, and go to the assistance of the Jews in Galilee, whilst

he and another of his brothers, Jonathan, made haste into the

land of Gilead, with eight thousand soldiers. And he left Jo­

seph, the son of Zacharias, and Azarius, to be over the rest of

the forces; and charged them to keep Judea very carefully, and

to fight no battles with any persons whomsoever until his re­

turn. Accordingly, Simon went into Galilee, and fought the

enemy, and put them to flight, and pursued them to the very

gates of Ptolemais, and slew about three thousand of them; and

took the spoils of those that were slain, and those Jews whom

they had made captives, with their baggage; and then returned

home.

3. Now as for Judas Maccabeus, and his brother Jonathan,

they passed over the river Jordan; and when they had gone

three days' journey, they light upon the Nabateans, who came

to meet them peaceably, and who told them how the affairs of

those in the land of Gilead stood; and how many of them were

in distress, and driven into garrisons, and into the cities of Ga­

lilee: and exhorted him to make haste to go against the foreign­

