366 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

they had made contrivances to get pools of water, and laid up

corn in granaries for themselves, and were able to make great

resistance, by issuing out on the sudden against any that attacked

them; for the entrances of their caves were narrow, in which

but one could come in at a time, and the places within incredibly

large, and made very wide; but the ground over their habitations

was not very high, but rather on a plain, while the rocks are

altogether hard and difficult to be entered upon, unless any one

gets into the plain road by the guidance of another, for these

roads are not straight, but have several revolutions. But when

these men are hindered from their wicked preying upon their

neighbours, their custom is to prey one upon another, insomuch

that no sort of injustice comes amiss to them. But when Herod

had received this grant from Caesar, and was come into this

country, he procured skilful guides, and put a stop to their wick­

ed robberies, and procured peace and quietness to the neighbour­

ing people.

2. Hereupon Zenodorus was grieved, in the first place, be­

cause his principality was taken away from him, and still more

so, because he envied Herod, who had gotten it; so he went up

to Rome to accuse him, but returned back again without suc­

cess. Now Agrippa was [about this time] sent to succeed Cae­

sar in the government of the countries beyond the Ionian sea,

upon whom Herod light when he was wintering about Mitylene,

for he had been his particular friend and companion, and then

returned into Judea again. ^Jowever, some of the Gadarens

came to Agrippa, and accused Herod, whom he sent back bound

to the king without giving them the hearing: but still the

Arabians, who of old bare ill-will to Herod's government, were

nettled, and at that time attempted to raise a sedition in his do­

minions, and as they thought upon a more justifiable occasion:

for Zenodorus, despairing already of success, as to his own af­

fairs, prevented [his enemies,] by selling to those Arabians a

part of his principality, called Auranitis, for the value of fifty

talents; but as this was included in the donations of Caesar, they

contested the point with Herod, as unjustly deprived of what

they had bought. Sometimes they did this by making incur­

sions upon him, and sometimes by attempting force against

him, and sometimes by going to law with him. Moreover, they

persuaded the poorer soldiers to help them, and were trouble­

some to him, out of a constant hope that they should seduce

the people to raise a sedition; in which designs those that are

in the most miserable circumstances of life, are still the most

earnest; and although Herod had been a great while apprized of

these attempts, yet' did not he indulge any severity to them,

