Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THJ. JEWS. Jb}

and by the darts which the enemy threw at them from the

towers. ,.

2. Now the city was taken in the ninth day of the fourth

month, in the eleventh year of the reign of Zedekiah. They

were indeed only generals of the king of Babylon, to whom Ne­

buchadnezzar committed the care of the siege, for he abode him -

self in the city of Riblah. The names of these generals who rav -

aged andsubdued Jerusalem, if any one desire to know them, were

these, Nergal Sharezer, Samgar Nebo, Rabsaris, Sa«rsechim, and

Rabmag. And when the city was taken about midnight, and

the enemies' generals were entered into the temple, and when Ze­

dekiah was sensible of it, he took his wives and his children, and

his captains and his friends, and with them fled out of the city,

through the fortified ditch, and through the desert: and when

certain of the deserters had informed the Babylonians of this, at

break of day, they made haste to pursue after Zedekiah, and over­

took him not far from Jericho, and encompassed him about; but

for those friends.and captains of Zedekiah who had fled out of

the city with him, when they saw their enemies near them, they

left him and dispersed themselves, some one way and some ano­

ther, and every one resolved to save himself; so the enemy took

Zedekiah alive, when he was deserted by all but a few, with his

children and his wives, and brought him to the king. When he

was come, Nebuchadnezzar began to "call him a wicked wretch,

"and a covenant breaker, and one that had forgotten his former

"words, when he promised to keep the country for him. He

"also reproached him for his ingratitude, that when he had re-

"ceived the kingdom from him, who had taken it from Jehoia-

"chin, and given it him, he had made use of the power he gave

"him :against him that gave it, but, said he, God is great, who

"hated that conduct of thine, and hath brought thee under us."

And when he had used these words to Zedekiah, he commanded

his sons and his friends to be slain, while Zedekiah and the rest

of the captains looked on, after which he put out the eyes o

Zedekiah : and bound him, and carried him to Babylon. And

these things happened to him*, as Jeremiah and Ezekiel had

foretold to him, that he should be caught, and brought before the

king of Babylon, and should speak to him face to face; and should

see his eyes with his own eyes; and thus far did Jeremiah pro-

* This observation of Josephus* about the seeming disagreement of Jeremiah,  
chap. wii. 4. and xxxiv. 3. and Ezek. xii. 13. but real agreement at last,
concerning

the fate of Zedekiah, is very true, and very remarkable. See chap. vii. sect.
2. Nor

is it at all unlikely that the courtiers and false prophets might make use of
this

*ecming contradiction to dissuade Zedekiah from believing either of those prophet*,  
as Josephus here intimates lie was dissuaded thereby.

VOL. II. I If

