Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 97

7- So when Zorobabel had left off his discourse about truth,

and the multitude had cried out aloud that he had spoken the

most wisely, and that it was truth alone that had immutable

strength, and such as never would wax old, the king commanded,

that he should ask for somewhat over and above what he had

promised, for that he would give it him because of his wisdom,

and that prudence wherein he exceeded the rest; and thou shalt

sit with me, said the king, and shalt be called my cousin. When

he had said this, Zorobabel put him in mind of the vow he had

made in case he should ever have the kingdom. Now this vow

was, " to rebuild Jerusalem, and to build therein the temple ot

"God; as also to restore the vessels which Nebuchadnezzar had

"pillaged, and carried to Babylon." And this, said he, is that

request which thou now permittest me to make, on account that

I have been judged to be wise, and understanding:

8. So the king was pleased with what he had said, and arose

and kissed him; and wrote to the toparchs, and governors, and

enjoined them to conduct Zorobabel and those that were going

with him to build the temple. He also sent letters to those rul­

ers that were in Syria and Phenicia to cut down and carry cedar

trees from Lebanon to Jerusalem, and to assist him in building

the city. He also wrote to them, that all the captives who should

go to Judea should be free; and he prohibited his deputies and

governors to lay any king's taxes upon the Jews; he also per­

mitted, that they should have all that land which they could pos­

sess themselves of without tributes. He also enjoined the Idu-

means and Samaritans, and the inhabitants of Celesyria, to restore

villages which they had taken from the Jews; and that besides

all this, fifty talents should be given them for the building of the

temple. He also permitted them to offer their appointed sacri­

fices, and that whatsoever the high priest and the priests wanted,

and those sacred garments wherein they used to worship God,

three of the king's guard themselves: and even the mighty rewards are spo­

ken of as proposed by themselves, and the speeches are related to have been

delivered by themselves to the king in writing, while all is contrary in
Josephus.

I need not say whose account is the most probable, the matters speak for them­

selves; and there can be no doubt but Josephus' history is here to be rery
much

preferred before the other. Nor indeed does it seem to me at all unlikely,
that the'

whole was a contrivance of king Darius* own, in order to be decently and
inoffen­

sively put in mind by Zorobabel, of fulfilling his old vow for the rebuilding
of Je­

rusalem and the temple, and the restoration of the worship of the ONE TRUE GOD

there. Nor does the full meaning of Zorobabel, when he cries out, 3 Esdras iv.
4O.

'* Blessed" be the God of truth;'* and here " God is true and righteous," or

even of all the people, 5" Esdras iv. 41. "Great is truth, and mighty above
all

things," seem to nw much different from this, "There is hut ONE TRUE GOD,"

the God of Israel. To which doctrine, such as Cyrus, and Darius, &c. the Jews*

great patrons, seem not to have been very averse, though the entire idolatry
of their

kingdoms made them generally conceal it.

