Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES Of THE JEWS. 897

superiors, the same did he desire to be paid to himself; and

what he thought the most excellent present he could make ano­

ther, he discovered an inclination to have the like presented to

himself. But now the Jewish nation is by their law a stranger

to all such things, and accustomed to prefer righteousness to

glory; for which reason that nation was not agreeable to him,

because it was out of their power to flatter the king's ambition

with statues or temples, or any other such performances. And

this seems to me to have been at once the occasion of Herod's

crimes, as to his own courtiers and counsellors, and of his bene­

factions, as to foreigners and those that had no relation to him.

CHAP. VI. ''

An embassage of the Jews in Cyrene and Asia to Caesar, concern­

ing the complaints they had to make against the Greeks: with

copies of the epistles "which Ccesar and Agrippa wrote to the

cities for them.

§ 1. -IN ow the cities ill treated the Jews in Asia, and all those

also of the same nation which lived in Lybia, which joins to

Cyrene, while the former kings had given them equal privileges

with the other citizens; but the Greeks affronted them at this

time, and that so far as to take away their sacred money, and to

do them mischief on other particular occasions. When there­

fore they were thus afflicted, and found no end of the barbar­

ous treatment they met with among the Greeks, they sent am­

bassadors to Caesar on those accounts; who gave them the same

privileges as they had before, and sent letters to the same pur­

pose to the governors of the provinces, copies of which I sub­

join here, as testimonials of the ancient favourable disposition

the Roman emperors had towards us.

2. " Caesar Augustus high priest, and tribune of the people,

"ordains thus: Since the nation of the Jews hath been found

"grateful to the Roman people, not only at this time, but m

"time past also, and chiefly Hyrcanus the high priest, under

"my father * Caesar the emperor, it seemed good to me and

"my counsellors, according to the sentence and oath of the peo-

"pie of Rome, that the Jews have liberty to make use of their

"own customs, according to the law of their forefathers, as they

"made use of them under Hyrcanus the high priest of Almigh-

"ty God; and that their sacred money be not touched, but be

** sent to Jerusalem, and that it be committed to the care of the

* Augustus here calls Julius Csesar his father, though by birth he was only his  
uncle, on account of his adoption by him. See the same, Antiq. B. XIV. ch. xiv

SUCt. 4.

