B2" JtNTIjJUITIBtf OF THB JEWS. BOOK X»

he was under, which was very sore, and by reason -of the sur­

prising nature of what was told him, so he desired that Isaiah

would give him some sign; of wonder, that he might believe him

in what he had said, andbe sensible that he came from God: for

things that are beyond expectation, and greater than our hopes,

are made credible by the actions of like nature. And when

Isaiah bad asked him, WThat sign he desired to be exhibited? he

desired that he would make the shadow of the sun, which he had

already made to go down ten steps [or degrees] in his house, to

* return again to the same place, and to make it as it was be­  
fore. And when the prophet prayed to God to exhibit this

sign to the king, he saw what he desired to see, and was freed

-from- his distemper, and went up to the temple, where he wor­  
shipped God and made vows to him.

'2. At this time it was that the dominion of the Assyrians f waa

overthrown by the Medes, but of these things I shall treat else­

where. But the king of Babylon, whose name was Baladon, sent

ambassadors to Hezekiah, with presents, and desired he would

be his ally and his friend. So he received the ambassadors gladly,

and made them a feast, and showed them his treasures, and his-

armoury, and the other wealth he was possessed of, in precious

stones, and in gold, and gave them presents to be carried to Ba-

ladon, and sent them back to him. Upon which the prophet

Isaiah came to him, and inquired of him, "Whence those am-

'** bassadors came?" To which he replied, That " they came

** from Babylon, from the king; and that he had showed them

-'<'* As to this regress of the shadow, either upon tt sun-dial-, or the steps of the-  
royal palace built by Ahaz, whether it were physically done by the real
miracu­

lous revolution of the earth in its diurnal motion backward from east to west,
for

a while, and its return again to its old natural revolution from west to east,
or whe­

ther it were not apparent only; and performed by an zerkil phosphorus, which
imi­

tated the sun's motion backward, while a cloud hid the real sun, cannot now be
de­

termined. Philosophers and astronomers will naturally incline to the latter
hypothe­

sis. However, it must be noted, that Josephus seemi to have understood it
otherwise

than we generally do; that the shadow was accelerated at much at first forward
as it

was made to go backward afterward, and so the day was neither longer nor
shorter

than usual, which it must be confessed, agrees best of all to astronomy, whose
eclip­

ses older than that time were observed at the times of the day as if this
miracle bad

never happened. After all, this wonderful signal was not, it seems, peculiar
to Ju-

dea, but either seen, or at last heard of, at Babylon also, as appears by 2
Chron.

xxxii. 31. where we learn, that the Babylonian ambassadors were sent to
Hezekiah,

among other things, to im/uira of the wonder that was done in the land.

f This expression of Josephus' that the Medes, upon this destruction of the
As­

syrian army, ova-threw the Assyrian empire, seems to be too strong, for
although

they immediately cast off the Assyrian yoke, and set up Deioces a king of
their own,

jet it was sometime before the Medes and Babylonians overthrew Nineveh, and

some generations ere the Msdes and Persians under Cyaxares and Cyrus overthrew

Ihe Assyrian or Babylonian unpin;.

