Chap. V £ IT. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 129

ter, whose name was Nicaso, in marriage to Manasseh, as think­

ing this alliance by marriage would be a pledge and security that

the nation of the Jews should continue their good will to him

CHAP. VIII.

Concerning Sanballat and Manasseh, and the temple 'winch they

built on mount Gerizzim; as also how Alexander made his

entry into the city Jerusalem ,- and "what benefits he bestowed on

the Jews.

§ 1. ABOUT this time it was that Philip, king of Macedon,

was treacherously assaulted and slain at Egae by Pausanias, the

son of Cerastes, who was derived from the family of Orestae,

and his son Alexander succeeded him in the kingdom, who

passing over the Hellespont, overcame the generals of Darius'

army in a battle fought at Granicum. So he marched over

Lydia, and subdued Ionia, and overran Caria, and fell upon

the places of Pamphylia, as has been related elsewhere.

2. But the elders of Jerusalem being very uneasy that the

brother of Jaddua the high priest, though married to a foreigner,

should be a partner with him in the high priesthood, quarrelled

with him ; for they esteemed this man's marriage a step to such

as should be desirous of transgressing about the marriage of

[strange] wives, and that this would be the beginning of a mu­

tual society with foreigners, although the offence of some about

marriages, and their having married wives that were not of

their own country, had been an occasion of their former capti­

vity, and of the miseries they then underwent; so they com­

manded Manasseh to divorce his wife, or not to approach the al­

tar, the high priest himself joining with the people in their in­

dignation against his brother, and driving him away from the

altar. V/hereupon Manasseh came to his father-in-law, San­

ballat, and told him, That "although he loved his daughter

"Nicaso, yet he was not willing to be deprived of his sacerdotal

"dignity on her account, which was the principal dignity in

"their nation, and always continued in the same family." And

when Sanballat promised him not only to preserve to him the

honour of his priesthood, but to procure for him the power and

dignity of a high priest, and would make him governor of all

the places he himself now ruled, if he would keep his daughter

for his wife; He also told him farther, that he would build

him a temple like to that at Jerusalem, upon mount Gerizzim

which .is the highest of all the mountains that are in Samaria,

and he" promised that he would do this with the approbation of

Darius the king. Manasseh was elevated with these promises,

and stayed with Sanballat, upon a supposal that he should gain

a high priesthood, as bestowed on him by Darius, for it hap­

