318 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

father and her brother to be slain. And when he took this in­

jury very unkindly, and was ready to use violence to her, in a

precipitate manner, the king's sister Salome, observingthathe was

more than ordinarily disturbed, sent into the king his cup-bearer,

who had been prepared long beforehand for such a design,

and bid him tell the king, how Mariamne had persuaded him to

give his assistance in preparing a love potion for him; and if he

appear to be greatly concerned, and to ask what that love potion

was? to tell him, that she had the potion, and that he was de­

sired only to give it him: but that in case he did not appear to be

much concerned at this potion, to let the thing drop, and that i.

he did so, no harm should thereby come to him. When she had

given him, these instructions, she sent him in at this time to make

such a speech. So he went in, after a composed manner, to gain

credit to what he should say, and yet somewhat hastily, and said,

that " Mariamne had given him presents, and persuaded him to

"give him a love potion." And when this moved the king,

he said, that " this love potion was a composition that she had

"given him, whose effects he did not know, which was the reason

"of his resolving to give him this information, as the safest

"course he could take, both for himself and for the king." When

Herod heard what he said, and was in an ill disposition before,

his indignation grew more violent: and he ordered that eunuch

of Mariamne's who was most faithful to her, to be brought to

torture about this potion, as well knowing it was not possible

that any thing small or great could be done without him. And

when the man was under the utmost agonies, he could say no­

thing concerning the thing he was tortured about, but so far he

:new that Mariamne's hatred against him was occasioned by

somewhat that Sohemus had said to her. Now, as he was say­

ing this, Herod cried out aloud, and said, that " Sohemus, who

"had been at all other times most faithful to him, and to his go-

"vernment, would not have betrayed what injunctions he had

"given him; unless he had had a nearer conversation than ordin-

"ary with Mariamne." So he gave order that Sohemus should

be seized on and slain immediately; buthe allowed his wife to take

her trial: and got together those that were most faithful to him,

and laid an elaborate accusation against her for this love potion

and composition, which had been charged upon her by way of

calumny only. However, he kept no temper in what he said,

and was in too great a passion for judging well about this matter.

Accordingly, when the court was at length satisfied that he was

so resolved, they passed the sentence of death upon her: but

'when the sentence was passed upon her, this temper was suggest­

ed by himself, and by some others of the court, that she should

not be thus hastily put to death, but be laid in prison in one ot

