Chap. XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 237

to persuade men to do as he would have them, and a leader of

the populace, made those of Ptolemais change their opinions:

and said to them, That " it was better to run the hazard of be-

"ing subject to the Jews, than to admit of evident slavery by

"delivering themselves up to a master: and besides that, to

"have not only a war at present, but to expect a much greater

"war from Egypt, for that Cleopatra would not overlook an

"army raised by Ptolemy for himself out of the neighbourhood,

"but would come against them with a great army of her own,

"and this because she was labouring to eject her son out of Cy-

"prus also; that as for Ptolemy, if he fail of his hopes he can

"still retire to Cyprus, but that they will be left in the greatest

"danger possible." Now Ptolemy, although he had heard of

the change that was made in the people of Ptolemais, yet did he

still go on with his voyage, and came to the country called Sy­

camine, and there set his army on shore. This army of his in

the whole, horse and foot together, were about thirty thousand,

with which he marched near to Ptolemais, and there pitched his

camp: But when the people of Ptolemais neither received his

ambassadors, nor would hear what they had to say, he was un- .

der a very great concern.

4. But when Zoilus and the people of Gaza came to him, and

desired his assistance, because their country was laid waste by

the Jews, and by Alexander, Alexander raised the seige, for fear

of Ptolemy: And when he had drawn off his army into his own

country, he used a stratagem afterwards, by privately inviting

Cleopatra to come against Ptolemy, but publicly pretending to

desire a league of friendship and mutual assistance with him; and

promising to give him four hundred talents of silver, he desired

that, by way of requital, he would take off' Zoilus the tyrant,

and give his country to the Jews. And then indeed Ptolemy,

with pleasure, made such a league of friendship with Alexander,

and subdued Zoilus; but when he afterward heard that he had

privily sent to Cleopatra his mother, he broke the league with

him, which yet he had confirmed with an oath, and fell upon

him, and besieged Ptolemais, because it would not receive him.

However, leaving his generals, with some part of his forces, to

go on with the siege, he went himself immediately with the rest

to lay Judea waste ; and when Alexander understood this to be

Ptolemy's intention, he also got together about fifty thousand

soldiers out of his own country; nay, * as some writers have

* From these and otjier occasional expressions, dropped by Josephus, we may learn,  
that where the sacred books of the Jews were deficient, he had several other
histories

then extant, but now most of them lost, which he faithfully followed in his
own

history.—Nor indeed have we any other records of those times, relating to
Judea, that

can be compared to these accounts of Josej hus, though when we do meet with
authen­

tic fragments of such original records, they do almost always confirm his
history.

