294 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

"and of great wickedness towards the gods; for the sake of which

"we suppose it was that the * sun turned away his light from us,

"as unwilling to view the horrid crime they were guilty of in

"the case of Caesar. We have also overcome their conspiracies,

"which threatened the gods themselves, which Macedonia re-

"ceived, as it is a climate peculiarly proper for impious and in-

"solent attempts: and we have overcome that confused rout of

"men, half mad with spite against us, which they got together

"at Philippi in Macedonia, when they seized on the places that

"were proper for their purpose, and as it were, walled them

"round with mountains to the very sea, and where the passage

"was open only through a single gate. This victory we gained

"because the gods had condemned these men for their wicked

"enterprizes. Now Brutus, when he had fled as far as Philip-

"pi, was shut up by us, and became a partaker of the same per-

"dition with Cassius; and now, these have received their pun-

"ishment, we suppose, that we may enjoy peace for the time to

"come, and that Asia may be at rest from war. We therefore

"make that peace which God hath given us common to our con-

"federates also, insomuch, that the body of Asia is now recover-

"ed out of that distemper it was under by the means of our

"victory. I, therefore, bearing in mind both thee and your

"nation, shall take care of what may be for your advantage. I

"have also sent epistles in writing to the several cities, that if

"any persons, whether freemen or bondmen, have been sold un-

"der the spear by Caius Cassius, or his subordinate officers,

"they may be set free. And I will that you kindly make use of

"the favours which I and Dolabella have granted you. I also

"forbid the Tyrians to use any violence with you; and for what

"places of the Jews they now possess, I order them to restore

"them, I have withal accepted of the crown which thou sentest

"me."

4. " Marcus Antonius, imperator, to the magistrates, senate,

"andpeopleof Tyre,sendethgreeting: TheambassadorsofHyr-

"canus the high priest and ethnarch [of the Jews] appeared be-

"fore me at Ephesus, and told me, that you are in possession of

"part of their country, which you entered upon under the go-

"vernment of our adversaries. Since, therefore, we have un-

"dertaken a war for the obtaining the government, and have

"taken care to do what was agreeable to piety and justice, and

"have brought to punishment those that had neither any re-

"membrance of the kindnesses they had received, nor have kept

» This clause plainly alludes to that well known but unusual and very long
dark­

ness of the sun, which happened upon the murder of Julius Csesar, by Brutus
and

Cassius, which is greatly taken notice of by Virgil, Pliny, and other Roman
authors.

See Virgil's Georgics, Book I. just before the end; and Pliny's Nat, Hist. B.
IL

ilt. XXX.

