Chap. V.' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 335

and the men were utterly destroyed, and thought there now re­

mained nothing that could oppose them. Accordingly, they took

the Jewish ambassadors, who came to them after all this had hap­

pened, to make peace with them, and slew them, and came with

great alacrity against their army: but the Jews durst not with­

stand them, and were so cast down by the calamities they were

under, that they took no care of their affairs, but gave up them­

selves to despair, for they had no hope that they should be upon

a level again with them in battles, nor obtain any assistance else­

where while their affairs at home were in such great distress

also. When matters were in this condition, the king persuaded

the commanders by his words, and tried to raise their spirits,

which were quite sunk; and first he endeavoured to encourage

and embolden some of the better sort beforehand, and then ven­

tured to make a speech to the multitude, which he had before

avoided to do, lest he should find them uneasy thereat, because of

the misfortunes which had happened, so he made a consolatory

speech to the multitude, in the manner following:

3. " You are not unacquainted, my fellow-soldiers, that we

"have had not long since, many accidents that have put a stop

"to what we are about; and it is probable, that even those that

"arembstdistinguishedaboveothers fortheircourage, can hardly

"keep up their spirits in such circumstances; but since we can-

"not avoid fighting, and nothing that hath happened is of such a

"nature but it may by ourselves be recovered into a good state,

"and this by one brave action only well performed, I have pro-

"posed to myself both to give you some encouragement, and, at

"the same time, some information, both which parts of my de-

"sign will tend to this point, that you may still continue in your

"own proper fortitude. I will then in the first place, demon-

"strate to you, that this war is a just one on our side, and that

"on this account it is a war of necessity, and occasioned by the

"injustice of our adversaries, for if you be once satisfied of this,

"it will be a real cause of alacrity to you, after which I will

"farther demonstrate, that the misfortunes we are under are

"of no great consequence, and that we have the greatest rea-

ff son to hope for victory. I shall begin with the first, and

** appeal to yourselves as witnesses to what I shall say. You  
"are not ignorant certainly of the wickedness of the Arabians,

"which is to that degree as to appear incredible to all other

"men, and to include somewhat that shows the grossest bar-

"barity and ignorance of God. Their chief things wherein

"they have affronted us, have arisen from covetousness and

"envy; and they have attacked us in an insidious manner,

"and on the sudden. And what occasion is there for me to

"mention many instances of such their procedure' When they

