Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 55

*' all lie tiad, that by the sight of his riches and forces they might  
"thereby guess at [the plenty he was in], and be able to in-

*' form the king of it." But the prophet rejoined, and said,  
"Know thou, that, after a little while, these riches of thine

"shall be carried away to Babylon, and thy posterity shall be

"made eunuchs there, and lose their manhood, and be servants

"to the king of Babylon, for that God foretold such things

"would come to pass." Upon which words Hezckiah .was

troubled, and said, That "he was himself unwilling that his

*' nation should fall into such calamities, yet since it is not pos-  
"sible to alter what God had determined, he prayed that there

*' might be peace while he lived." Berosus also makes men-  
don of this Baladon king of Babylon. Now sis to this prophet,

[Isaiah], he was by the confession of all a divine and wonderful

man in speaking truth; and out of the assurance that he had

never written what was false, he wrote down all his pro足

phecies, and left them behind him in books that their accom足

plishment might be judged of from the events, -by posterity: nor

.did this prophet do so alone, but the others, which were twelve

in number, did the same. And whatsoever is done among us,

whether it be good, or whether it be bad, comes to pass accord足

ing to their prophecies; but of every one of those we shall speak

hereafter.

.. ! CHAP. III.

How Manasseh reigned after Hezekiah; and how, when he was

in captivity, he returned to God, and was restored to his king足

dom, and left it to [his son} Amon.

$ 1. WHEN king Hezekiah had survived the interval ot

tune already mentioned, and had dwelt all that time in

peace, he died, having completed fifty-four years of his life,

and reigned twenty-nine: but when his son Manasseh, whose

mother's name was Hephzibah, of Jerusalem, had taken the

kingdom, he departed from the conduct of his father, and fell

into a course of life quite contrary thereto, and showed himself

in his manners most wickeVl in all respects, and omitted no sort

of impiety, but imitated those transgressions of the Israelites, by

the commission of which against God, they had been destroyed;

for he was so hardy as to defile the temple of God and the city,

and the whole country; for, by setting out from a contempt of

God, he barbarously slew all the righteous men who were among

the Hebrews, nor would he spare the prophets, for he every

day slew some of them, till Jerusalem was overthrown with blood.

So God was angry at these proceedings, and sent prophets to

