152 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

"in the winter time overthrew the nation of the Jews. He al-

"so saith, in the same book, that when Scopas was conquered

"by Antiochus, Antiochus received Batanea and Samaria, and

"Abila and Gadara: and that, a while afterwards, there came

"in to him those Jews that inhabited near that temple which

"was called Jerusalem, concerning which, although I have

"more to say, and particularly concerning the presence of God

"about the temple, yet do I put off that history till another

"opportunity." This it is which Polybius relates. But we

will return to the series of the history, when we have first pro­

duced the epistle of king Antiochus:

"King ANTIOCHUS to PTOLEMY, sendeth greeting:

"Since the Jews, upon our first entrance on their country, de-

"monstrated their friendship towards us; and when we came

"to their city [Jerusalem,] received us in a splendid manner,

"and came to meet us with their senate, and gave abundance of

"provisions to our soldiers, and to the elephants, and joined

"with us in ejecting the garrison of the Egyptians that were in

"the citadel, we have thought fit to reward them, and to re-

"trieve the condition of their city, which had been greatly de-

"populated by such accidents as have befallen its inhabitants,

"and to bring those that have been scattered abroad back to the

'; city. And, in the first place, we have determined, on ac-

"count of their piety towards God, to bestow on them, as a

"pension, for their sacrifices of animals that are fit for sacrifice,

"for wine and oil, and frankincense, the value of twenty thou-

"sand pieces of silver, and [six] sacred artabrae of fine flour,

"with one thousand four hundred and sixty medimni of wheat,

"and three hundred and seventy-five medimni of salt. And

"these payments I would have fully paid them, as I have sent

"orders to you. I would also have the work about the temple

"finished, and the cloisters, and if there be any thing else that

"ought to be rebuilt.. And for the materials of wood, let it

"be brought them out of Judea itself, and out of the other

"countries, and out of Libanus, tax free: and the same I would

"have observed as to those other materials which will be ne-

"cessary, in order to render the temple more glorious. And let

"all of that nation live according to the laws of their own coun-

"try; and let the senate and the priests, and the scribes of the

"temple, and the sacred singers, be discharged from poll-mo-

"ney and the crown tax, and other taxes also. And that the

"city may the sooner recover its inhabitants, I grant a dis-

"charge from taxes for three years to its present inhabitants;

"and to such as shall come to it, until the month Hyperbere-

