Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 37

pie, and the bright rays of the sun shone through it, and fell up­

on the king's face, insomuch that the leprosy seized upon him

immediately.- And before the city, at a place called Eroge, half

the mountain broke off'from the rest on the west, and rolled it­

self four furlongs, and stood still at the east mountain, till the

roads, as well as the king's gardens, were spoiled by the ob­

struction. Now, as soon as the priests saw that the king's face

was infected with the leprosy, they told him of the calamity he

was under, and commanded that he should go out of the city as

a polluted person. Hereupon he was so confounded at the sad

distemper, and sensible that he was not at liberty to contradict,

that he did as he was commanded, and underwent this miserable

and terrible punishment for an intention beyond what befitted a

man to have, and for that impiety against God which was im­

plied therein. So he abode out of the city for some time, and

lived a private life, while his son Jotham took the government;

after which he died with grief and anxiety at what had happened

to him, when he had lived sixty-eight years, and reigned of

them fifty-two; and was buried by himself in his own gardens.

CHAP. XI .

How Zechariah, Shallum, Menahem, Pekahiah, and Pekah took

the government over the Israelites; and how Pul and Tiglath-

Pileser made an expedition against the Israelites. How Jo­

tham, the son of Uzziah, reigned over the tribe of Judah: and

what things Nahum prophesied against the Assyrians.

§ 1. .N ow when Zechariah, the son of Jeroboam, had reign­

ed six months over Israel, he was slain by the treachery of a

certain friend of his, whose name was Shallum, the son of Ja-

besh, who took the kingdom afterward, but kept it no longer

than thirty days; for Menahem, the general of nis army, who

was at that time in the city Tirzah, and heard of what had be­

fallen Zechariah, removed thereupon with all his forces to Sa­

maria, and joining battle with Shallum, slew him; and when

he had made himself king, he went thence, and came to the city

Tiphsah, but the citizens that were in it, shut their gates, and

barred them against the king, and would not admit him; but

in order to be avenged on them, he burnt the country round

about it and took the city by force, upon a siege; and being ve­

ry much displeased at what the inhabitants of Tiphsah had done,

he slew them all, and spared not so much as the infants, without

as they fled from this earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah;" so
that

there seems to have been some considerable resemblance between these
historical

and prophetical earthquakes-

