Chap. XVI. ANTiyurriES OF THE JEWS. 315

works, neither from the air, nor from the workmen: so they

brought their engines to bear, and shook the walls of the citv,

and tried all manner of ways to get in; yet did not these with­

in discover any fear, but they also contrived not a few engines to

oppose their engines withal. They also sallied out, and burnt

not only those engines that were not yet perfected, but those that

were; and when they came hand to hand, their attempts were

not less bold than those of the Romans, though they were behind

them in skill. They also erected new works when the former

were ruined, and making mines underground, they met each

other, and fought there: and making useof brutish con rage rather

than of prudent valour, they persisted in this war to the very last;

and this they did while a mighty army lay round about them,

and while they were distressed by famine, and the want of neces­

saries, for this happened to be a sabbatic year. The first that

scaled the walls were twenty chosen men, the next were Sosius'

centurions, for the first wall was taken in forty days, and the se­

cond in fifteen more, when some of the cloisters that were about

the temple were burnt, which Herod gave out to have been burnt

by Antigonus, in order to expose him to the hatred of the Jews.

And when the outer court of the temple, and the lower city were

taken, the Jews fled into the inner court of the temple, and into

the upper city; but now fearing lest the Romans should hinder

them from offering their daily sacrifices to God, they sent an cm-

bassage, and desired that they would only permit them to bring

in beasts for sacrifices, which Herod granted, hoping they were

going to yield, but when he saw that they did nothing of what

he supposed, but bitterly opposed him, in order to preserve the

kingdom to Antigonus, he made an assault upon the city, and

took it by storm; and now all parts were full of those that were

slain by the rage of the Romans at the long duration of the siege,

and by the zeal of the Jews that were on Herod's side, who were

not willing to leave one of their adversaries alive, so they were

murdered continually in the narrow streets and in the houses by

crowds, and as they were flying to the temple for shelter, and

there was no pity taken of either infants or the aged, nor did

they spare so much as the weaker sex; nay, although the king

sent about, and besought them to spare the people, yet nobody

restrained their hand from slaughter, but, as if they were a com­

pany of madmen, they fell upon persons of all ages, without dis­

tinction; and then Antigonus, without regard to either his past

or present circumstances, came down from the citadel, and fell

down at the feet of Sosius, who took no pity of him, in the

change of his fortune, but insulted him beyond measure, and

called him Antigone [_i. c. a woman, and not a man;] yet did

VOL. u. R K 25

