392 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

"holy temple which was built by thee. iW suppose we had

." made light of other dangers, can any murderer go off' un-

"punished, while Caesar is alive? We are thy sons, and not

"so impious, or so thoughtless, as that comes to, though per­

haps more unfortunate than is convenient for thee. But in

case thou neither findest any causes of complaint, nor any

treacherous designs, what sufficient evidences hast thou to make

such a wickedness of ours credible? Our mother is dead in­

deed, but then what befell her might be an instruction to us

"to caution, and not. an incitement to wickedness. We are

." willing to make a larger apology for ourselves, but actions

"never done do not admit of discourse: Nay, we will make

"this agreement with thee, and that before Caesar, the lord of

"all, who is now a mediator between us, If thou, O father, canst

"bring thyself by the evidence of truth, to have a mind free from

"suspicion concerning us, let us live, though even then we shall

"live in an unhappy way, for to beaccusedof greatactsof wicked-

"ness, though falsely, is a terrible thing; but if thou hast any

"fear remaining, continue thou on in thy pious life, we will

"give this reason for our own conduct, our life is not so de-

"sirable to us as to desire to have it, if it tend to the harm of

"our father who gave it us."

4. When Alexander had thus spoken, Caesar, who did not be­

fore believe so gross a calumny, was still more moved by it, and

looked intently upon Herod, and perceived he was a little con­

founded; the persons there present were under an anxiety about

the young men, and the fame that was spread abroad made the

king hated, for the very incredibility of the calumny, and the

Gommiseration which the flower of youth, the beauty of

body, which were in the young men, pleaded for assistance; and

the more so on this account, that Alexander had made their de­

fence with dexterity and prudence; nay, they did not themselves

any longer continue in their former countenances, which had

been bedewed with tears and cast downwards to the ground, but

now there arose in them a hope of the best: and the king himself

appeared not to have had foundation enough to build such an

accusation upon, he having no real evidence wherewith to con­

vict them. Indeed he wanted some apology for making the ac­

cusation; but Caesar, after some delay, said, That "although the

"young men were thoroughly innocent of that for which they

"were calumniated, yet had they been so far to blame, that

"they had not demeaned themselves towards their father, so as

"to prevent that suspicion which was spread abroad concerning

"him a vast sum; and that the Asamoneans, in those 125 years they held the

"government, were not able to perform so great a work, to the honour of God,

"at this was." Antiq. B. XVII. ch% vi. sect. 3. vol. HI-

