358 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

cause he contrived that it might at once be for his own secu­

rity, and a monument of his magnificence. He also changed its

name, and called it Sebaste. Moreover, he parted the adjoin­

ing country, which was excellent in its kind, among the inhabi­

tants of Samaria, that they might be in a happy condition, upon

their first coming to inhabit it. Besides all which, he encompas­

sed the city with a wall of great strength, and made use of the

acclivity of the place for making its fortifications stronger; nor

was the compass of the place made now so small as it had been

before, but was such as rendered it not inferior to the most fa­

mous cities; for it was twenty furlongs in circumference. Now,

within and about the .niddle of it, he built a sacred place, of a

furlong and a half [in circuit,] and adorned it with all sorts

of decorations, and therein erected a temple, which was il­

lustrious on account of both its largeness and beauty. And as

to the several parts of the city, he adorned them with decora­

tions of all sorts also: and as to what was necessary to provide

for his own security, he made the walls very strong for that

purpose, and made it for the greatest part a citadel; and as to

the elegance of the building, it was taken care of also, that he

might leave monuments of the fineness of his taste, and of his

beneficence, to future ages.

CHAP. IX.

Concerning the famine that happened in Judea and Syria , - and

how Herod, after he had married another wife, rebuilt Cesa-

rea, and other Grecian cities.

§ 1. JN ow on this very year, which was the thirteenth year

of the reign of Herod, very great calamities came upon the

country; whether they were derived from the anger of God, or

* whether this misery returns again naturally in certain periods  
of time; for in the first place there were perpetual droughts,

and for that reason the ground was barren, and did not bring

forth the same quantity of fruits that it used to produce; and

after this barrenness of the soil, that change of food which the

want of corn occasioned, produced distempers in the bodies of

men, and a pestilential disease prevailed, one misery following

upon the back of another: and the circumstances, that they

* Here we have an eminent example of the language of Josephus in his writing  
to Gentiles, different from that when he wrote to Jews; in his writing to whom
he

•till derives all such judgments from the anger of God; but because he knew
many

of the Gentiles thought they might naturally come in certain periods, he
complies

with them in the following sentence. See the note on the War, B. I. ch.
xxxiii. sect.

2. Vol. III.

