82 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

war; and when he was besieged in Babylon, there happened a

wonderful and prodigious vision. He was sat down at supper hi

a large room, and there were a great many vessels of silver, such

as were made for royal entertainments, and he had with him his

concubines, and his friends; whereupon he came to a resolution,

and commanded that those vessels of God which Nebuchadnezzar

had plundered out of Jerusalem, and had not made use of, but

had put them into his own- temple, should be brought out of that

temple. He also grew so haughty as to proceed to use them in

the midst pf his cups drinking out of them, and blaspheming

against God. In the mean time he saw a hand proceed out ot

the wall, and writing upon the wall certain syllables; at which

sight being disturbed, he called the magicians and Chaldeans to足

gether, and all that sort of men that are among these Barbarians^

and were able to interpret sighs and dreams, that they might ex足

plain the writing to him. But when the magicians said they

could discover nothing, nor did understand it, the king was ia

great disorder of mind, and under great trouble at this surprising

accident, so he caused it to be proclaimed through all the coun足

try, and promised, that to him who could explain the writing,

and give the signification couched therein, he would give him a

golden chain for his neck, and leave to wear a purple garment, as

did the kings of Chaldea, and would bestow on him the third part

of his own dominions. When this proclamation was made$ the

magicians ran together more earnestly, and were very ambitious

to find out the importance of the writing, but still hesitated about

it as much as before. Now when the king's * grandmother saw

him cast down at this accident, she began to encourage him, and

to say, that " there was a certain captive who came from Judea,

"a Jew by birth, but brought away thence by Nebuchadnezzar,

"when he had destroyed Jerusalem, whose name was Daniel, a

"wise man, and one of great sagacity in finding out what was

"impossible for others to discover, and what was known

"to God alone; who brought to light and answered such

"questions to Nebuchadnezzar, as no one else was able to an-

"swer, when they were consulted. She therefore desired thai

"he would send for him, and inquire of him concerning th<

"writing, and to condemn the unskilful ness of those that could

"not find their meaning, and this, although what God signified

"thereby should be of a melancholy nature."

* This grandmother or mother of Baltasar, the queen Dowager of Babylon, (for  
she is distinguished from his queen, Dan. v. 1O. 23.) seems to have been the
famous

>Jitceris, who fortified Babylon against the Medes and Persians, and in all
probabi足

lity governed under BalUsar, who seems to have been a weak and effeminate
prince.

