Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 205

account of the injuries his father Demetrius had done them;

yet did he bring this about; for as the people of Antioch hated

Alexander on Ammonius' account, as we have showed already,

they were easily prevailed with to cast him out of Antioch; who

thus expelled out of Antioch, came into Cilicia. Ptolemy came

then to Antioch, and was made king by its inhabitants, and by

the army; so that he was forced to put on two diadems, the one

of Asia, the other of Egypt: but being naturally a good and a

righteous man, and not desirous of what belonged to others, and

besides these dispositions, being also a wise man in reasoning

about futurities, he determined to avoid the envy of the Romans,

so he called the people of Antioch together to an assembly, and

persuaded them to receive Demetrius; and assured them, that

"he would not be mindful of what they did to his father in case

"he should now be obliged by them; and he undertook that he

"would himself be a good monitor and governor to him; and

"promised that he would not permit him to attempt any bad

"actions; but that for his own part, he was contented with the

"kingdom of Egypt." By which discourse he persuaded the

people of Antioch to receive Demetrius.

8. But now Alexander made haste with a numerous and great

army, and came out of Cilicia into Syria, and burnt the country

belonging to Antioch, and pillaged it; whereupon Ptolemy, and

his son-in-law Demetrius, brought their army against him, (for

he had already given him his daughter in marriage,) and beat

Alexander, and put him to flight: and accordingly he fled into

Arabia. Now it happened, in the time of battle, that Ptolemy's

horse, upon hearing the noise of an elephant, cast him ofi* his

back, and threw him on the ground; upon the sight of which

accident, his enemies fell upon him, and gave him many wounds

upon his head, and brought him into danger of death; for when

his guards caught him up, he was so very ill, that for four days'

time he was not able either to understand, or to speak. How­

ever, Zabdiel, a prince among the Arabians, cut off Alexander's

head, and sent it to Ptolemy, who recovering of his wounds, and

returning to his understanding on the fifth day, heard at once a

most agreeable hearing, and saw a most agreeable sight, which

were the death and the head of Alexander; yet a little after

this his joy for the death of Alexander, with which he was so

greatly satisfied, he also departed this life. Now, Alexander,

who was called Balas, reigned over Asia five years; as we have

elsewhere related.

9. But when Demetrius, who was styled * Nicator, had

taken the kingdom, he was so wicked as to treat Ptolemy's sol­

* This name Demetrius Nicator, or Demetrius the amfueror, is so written on

