Chap. XI . ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 189

them in array for the battle. He set the horsemen on both the

wings, and the light soldiers and the archers he placed before the

whole army, but he was himself on the right wing. And when

he had> thus put his army in order of battle, and was going to

join battle with the enemy, he commanded the trumpeter to give

a signal of battle, and the army to make a shout and to fall on

the enemy. And when Judas had done the same, he joined

battle with them; and as both sides fought valiantly, and the

battle continued till sunset, Judas saw that Bacchides, and the

strongest part of the army was in the right wing, and thereupon

took the most courageous men with him, and ran upon that part

of the army, and fell upon those that were there, and broke their

ranks, and drove them into the middle, and forced them to run

away, and pursued them as far as a mountain called Aza; but

when those of the left wing saw that the right wing was put to

flight, they encompassed Judas; and pursued him, and came be­

hind him, and took him into the middle of their army; so being

not able to fly, but encompassed round about with enemies, he

stood still, and he and those that were with him fought, and

when he had slain a great many of those that came against

him, he at last was himself wounded, and fell, and gave up the

ghost, and died in a way like to his former famous actions.

When Judas was dead, those that were with him had no one

whom they could regard [as their commander,] but when they

saw themselves deprived of such a general, they fled. But Si­

mon and Jonathan, Judas' brethren, received his dead body by

a treaty from the enemy, and carried it to the village of Modin,

where their father had been buried, and there buried him; while

the multitude lamented him many days, and performed the usual

solemn rites of a funeral to him. And this was the end that

Judas came to. He had been a man of valour and a great war­

rior, and mindful of the commands of his father Mattathias;

and had undergone all difficulties, both in doing and suffering,

for the liberty of his countrymen. And when his charactei

was so excellent [while he was alive,] he left behind him a glo­

rious reputation and memorial, by gaining freedom for his na­

tion, and delivering them from slavery under the Macedonians.

And when he had retained the high priesthood three years, he

died.

