Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 167

of their country, than concern as to the punishment which he

threatened to the disobedient; on which account they every day

underwent great miseries, and bitter torments, for they were

whipped with rods, and their bodies were torn to pieces, and

were crucified, while they were still alive, and breathed: They

also strangled those women and their sons whom they had cir­

cumcised, as the king had appointed, hanging their sons about

their necks as they were upon the crosses. And if there were

any sacred book of the law found, it was destroyed, and those

with whom they were found, miserably perished also.

5. When the Samaritans saw the Jews under these sufferings,

they no longer confessed that they were of their kindred, nor that

the temple on mount Gerizzim belonged to Almighty God.

This was according to their nature, as we have already shown.

And they now said, that they were a colony of Medes and Per­

sians: and indeed they were a colony of theirs. So they sent

ambassadors to Antiochus, and an epistle; whose contents are

these: "To king Antiochus the god, Epiphanes, a memorial

"from the Sidonians, who live at Shechem. Our forefathers,

"upon certain frequent plagues, and as following a certain an-

"cient superstition, had a custom of observing that day which

"by the Jews is called the Sabbath.* And when they had

"erected a temple at the mountain called Gerizzim, though

"without a name, they offered upon it the proper sacrifices.

"Now, upon the just treatment of these wicked Jews, those

"that manage their affairs, supposing that we were of kin to

"them, and practised as they do, make us liable to the same ac-

"cusations, although we be originally Sidonians, as is evident

"from the public records. We therefore beseech thee, our bene-

"factor and saviour, to give order to Appollonius, the gover-

"nor of this part of the country, and to Nicanor, the pro-

"curator of thy affairs, to give us no disturbance, nor to lay to

"our charge what the Jews are accused for, since we are aliens

"from their nation, and from their customs; but let our tem-

"pie, which at present hath no name at all, be named, The

"temple of Jupiter Hellenius. If this were once done, we should

"be no longer disturbed, but should be more intent on our own

"occupation with quietness, and so bring in a greater revenue

"to thee." When the Samaritans had petitioned for this, the

king sent them back the following answer, in an epistle: " King

"Antiochus to Nicanor. The Sidonians, who live at Shechem,

"have sent me the memorial inclosed. When therefore we

"were advising with our friends about it, the messengers sent

* This allegation of the Samaritans is remarkable, that though they were not  
Jews, yet did they, from ancient times, observe the Sabbath-day, and as they

elsewhere pretend, the Sabbatic year also, Antiq. B. XII. chap. vii. sect. 6.
Vol. II.

