55 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

set up in his royal palace, which his predecessors had framed;

and what thing soever there was besides, which they worshipped

as a god. And when he had thus purged all the country, he call­

ed the people to Jerusalem, and there celebrated the feast of

unleavened bread, and that called the Passover. He also gave

the people for Paschal sacrifices, young kids of the goats and

lambs, thirty thousand, and three hundred oxen for burnt of­

ferings. The principal of the priests also gave to the priests

against the passover, two thousand and six hundred lambs; the

principal of the Levites also gave to the Levites five thousand

Jambs and five hundred oxen, by which means there was great

plenty of sacrifices; and they offered those sacrifices according to

the laws of Moses, while every priest explained the matter, and

ministered to the multitude. And indeed there had been no

other festival thus celebrated by the Hebrews from the times of

Samuel the prophet; and the plenty of sacrifices now was the

occasion that all things were performed according to the laws,

and according to the custom of their forefathers. So when Jo-

siah had after this lived in peace; nay, in riches and reputation

also among all men, he ended his life in the manner following.

CHAP. V.

How Josiah fought with Neco [king of Egypf], and was twund-

ed and died in a little afterward: As also how Neco carried

Jehoahaz, who had been made king, into Egypt, and delivered

the kingdom to Jehoiakim: And [lastly] concerning Jeremiah

and Ezekiel.

§ 1. JXow Neco, king of Egypt, raised an army, ami

marched to the river Euphrates, in order to fight with the

Medes and Babylonians, who had * overthrown the dominion

of the Assyrians, for he had a desire to reign over Asia. Now

when he was come to the city Mendes, which belonged to the

kingdom of Josiah, he brought an army to hinder him from pass­

ing through his own country, in his expedition against the

Medes. Now Neco sent a herald to Josiah, and told him,

That "he did not make this expedition against him, but was

"making haste to Euphrates; and desired that he would not

"provoke him to fight against "him, because he obstructed his

"march to the place whither he had resolved to go." But Jo­

* This is a remarkable passage of chronology in Josephus, that about the latter  
end of the reign of Josiah, the Medes and Babylonians overthrew the empire of
the

Assyrians; or in the words of Tobit's continuator, that "before Tobias died,
lie

"heard of the destruction of Nineveh, which was taken by Nebuchodonosor the

"Babylonian, and Assuerus die Mede," Tob. ziv. 15.—See Dean Prideaux Con-

nection at tht year 612.

