508 ANTlgUITJES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

Antigonus' garrisons withdrew themselves, and had great plenty

of provisions. He also went thence, and resolved to destroy

those robbers that dwelt in the caves, and did much mischief in

the country: so he sent a troop of horsemen, and three compa­

nies of armed footmen against them. They were very neflr to

a village called Arbela; and on the fortieth day after, he came

himself with his whole army; and as the enemy sallied out

boldly upon him, the left wing of his army gave way, but he

appearing with a body of men, put those to flight who wei e al­

ready conquerors, and recalled his men that ran away. He al­

so pressed upon his enemies, and pursued them as far as the

river Jordan, though they ran away by different roads. So he

Drought over to him all Galilee, excepting those that dwelt in

the caves, and distributed money to every one of his soldiers,

giving them a hundred and fifty drachmae a-piece, and much

more to their captains, and sent them into winter quarters: at

which time Silo came to him, and his commanders with him,

because Antigonus would not give him provisions any longer,

for he supplied them for no more than one month; nay, he had

sent to all the country about, and ordered them to carry off the

provisions that were there, and retire to the mountains, that

the Romans might have no provisions to live upon, and so might

perish by famine: but Herod committed the care of that mat­

ter to Pheroras, his youngest brother, and ordered him to re­

pair Alexandrium also. Accordingly, he quickly made the sol­

diers abound with great plenty of provisions, and rebuilt Alex­

andrium, which had been before desolate.

5. About this time it was that Antony continued some time

at Athens, and that Ventidius, who was now in Syria, sent for

Silo, and commanded him to assist Herod in the first place, to

finish the present war, and then to send for their confederates,

for the war they were themselves engaged in ; but as for Herod,

he went in haste against the robbers that were in the caves, and

sent Silo away to Ventidius, while he marched against them.

These caves were in mountains that were exceeding abrupt, and

in their middle were no other than precipices, with certain en­

trances into the caves, and those caves were encompassed with

sharp rocks, and in these did the robbers lie concealed, with all

their families about them; but the king caused certain chests to

be made, in order to destroy them, and to be hung down, bound

about with iron chains, by an engine, from the top of the moun­

tain, it being not possible to get up to them, by reason of the

sharp ascent of the mountains, nor to creep down to them from

above. Now these chests were filled with armed men, whohadlong

hooks in their hands, by which they might pull out such as re­

sisted them, and then tumble them down, and kill them by so

