126 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI.

"you assist them, that at the same season whereto their miser-

"able estate did belong, they may defend themselves the Tery

« same day from unjust violence, the thirteenth day of the

"twelfth month, which is Adar, for God hath made that day a

'** day of salvation instead of a day of destruction to them; and

"may it be a good day to those that wish us well, and a memo-

^ rial of the punishment of the conspirators against us! and I

"will that you take notice, that every city, and every nation,

f* that shall disobey any thing that is contained in this epistle,

"shall be destroyed by fire and sword. However, let this

f* epistle be published through all the country that is under our

f* obedience, and let all the Jews, by all means be ready against

** the day before mentioned, that they may avenge themselves  
* upon their enemies."

13. Accordingly, the horsemen who carried the epistles, pro­

ceeded on the ways which they were to go with speed: but as

for Mordecai, as soon as he had assumed the royal garment, and

the crown of gold, and had put the chain about his neck, he went

forth in a public procession; and when the Jews, who are at

Shushan, saw him in so great honour with the king, they thought

his good fortune was common to themselves also; and joy, and a

beam of salvation encompassed the Jews, both those that were in

the cities, and those that were in the countries, upon the publi­

cation of the king's letters, insomuch, that many even of other

nations circumcised their foreskin for fear of the Jews, that they

might procure safety to themselves thereby; for on the thir­

teenth day of the twelfth month, which according to the Hebrews

is called Adar, but according to the Macedonians, Dystrus, those

that carried the king's epistle gave them notice, that the same

day wherein their danger was to have been, on that very day

should they destroy their enemies. But now the rulers of the

provinces, and the tyrants, and the kings, and the scribes, had

the Jews in esteem; for the fear they were in of Mordecai

forced them to act with discretion. Now when the royal decree

was come to all the country that was subject to the king, it fell

out that the Jews at Shushan slew five hundred of their enemies:

and when the king had told Esther the number of those that were

slain in that city, but did not well know what had been done in

the provinces, he asked her, whether she would have any thing

farther done against them ? for that it should be done according­

ly: Upon which she desired that the Jews might be permitted

to treat their remaining enemies in the same manner the next

day; as also that they might hang ten sons of Haman upon the

gallows. So the king permitted the Jews so to do, as desirous not

to contradict Esther. So they gathered themselves together again'

on the fourteenth day of the month Dystrus, and slew about

three hundred of their enemies, but touched nothing of what

