118 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI-

* how thej' might enjoy those blessings for all time to come.  
u And whereas I have been kindly informed by Haman, who

"on account of his prudence and justice, is the first in my esteem,

"and in dignity, and only second to myself for his fidelity and

"constant good will to me, that there is an ill natured nation in-

"termixed with all mankind, that is averse to our laws, and

"not subject to kings, and of a different conduct of life from

"others, that hateth monarchy, and of a disposition that is per-

"nicious to our affairs, I give order that all these men, of whom

"Haman our second father, hath informed us, be destroyed,

"with their wives, and children, and that none of them be spared,

"and that none prefer pity to them before obedience to this de-

"cree. And this I will to be executed on the fourteenth day

"of the twelfth month of the present year, that so when all

"that have enmity to us are destroyed, and this in one day, we

"may be allowed to lead the rest of our lives in peace hereafter."

Now when this decree was brought to the cities, and to the

country, all were ready for the destruction and entire abolish­

ment of the Jews, against the day before mentioned; and they

were very hasty about it at Shushan, in particular. Accord­

ingly, the king and Haman spent their time in feasting together

with good cheer and wine, but the city was in disorder.

7. Now when Mordecai was informed of what was done, he

rent his clothes and put on sackcloth, and sprinkled ashes upon

his head, and went about the city, crying out, That "a nation

"that had been injurious to no man, was to be destroyed." And

he went on saying thus as far as to the king's palace, and there

he stood, for it was not lawful for him to go into it in that ha­

bit. The same thing was done by all the Jews that were in the

several cities wherein this decree was published, with lamenta­

tion and mourning, on account of the calamities denounced

against them. But as soon as certain persons had told the queen

that Mordecai stood before the court in a mourning habit, she

was disturbed at this report, and sent out such as should change

his garments; but when he could not be induced to put off his

sackcloth, because the sad occasion that forced him to put it on

was not yet ceased; she called the eunuch Acratheus, for he was

then present, and sent him to Mordecai, in order to know of

him what sad accident had befallen him, for which he was in

mourning, and would not put off the habit he had put on at her

desire. Then did Mordecai inform the eunuch of the occasion

of his mourning, and of the decree which was sent by the king

into all the country, and of the promise of money whereby Ha­

man bought the destruction of their nation. He also gave him

a copy of what was proclaimed at Shushan, to be carried to Est­

her; and he charged her to petition the king about this matter,

