4 ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. Book IX.

* judges out of the priests and the Levites, and principal persons  
of the multitude, and admonished them to pass all their sentences

with care and justice. And that if any of the people of his coun­

try had differences of great consequence, they should send them

out of the other cities to these judges, who would be obliged to

give righteous sentences concerning such causes; and this with

the greater care, because it is proper that the sentences which

are given in that city wherein the temple of God is, and where­

in the king dwells, be given with great care, and the utmost

justice. Now he set over them Amariah the priest, and Zeba-

diah, [both] of the tribe of Judah: and after this manner it was

that the king ordered these affairs.

2. About the same time the Moabites and Ammonites made an

expedition against Jehoshaphat, and took with them a great

body of Arabians, and pitched their camp at Engedi, a city'

that is situate at the lake Asphaltitis, and distant three hundred

furlongs from Jerusalem. In that place grows the best kind of

palm-trees, and the ')- opobalsamum. Now Jehoshaphat heard

that the enemies had passed over the lake, and had made an

irruption into that country which belonged to his kingdom; at

which news he was affrighted, and called the people of Jerusalem

to a congregation in the temple, and standing over against the

temple itseltj he called upon God, "To afford him power and

"strength, so as to inflict punishment on those that made this

"expedition against them, (for that those who built this his tem-

"pie had prayed, that he would protect that city, and take ven-

"geance on those that were so bold as to come against it), for

"they are come to take from us that land which thou hast

"given us for a possession." When he had prayed thus, he fell

into tears; and the whole multitude, together with their wives

and children, made their supplications also : Upon which a cer-

Jain prophet, Jahaziel, by name, came into the midst of the assem­

bly, and cried out, and spake both to the multitude and to the

king, that God heard their prayers, and promised to fight against

their enemies. He also gave order that the king should draw

his forces out the next day, for that he should find them between

Jerusalem, and the ascent of Engedi, at a place, called the Emi­

nence, and that he should not fight against them, but only stand

still, and see how God would fight against them. When the pro­

phet had said this, both the king and the multitude fell upon their

* These judges, constituted by Jehoshaphat, were a kind of Jerusalem sanhedrim,  
out of the priests, the Levites, and the principal of the people, both here
and 2 Chron.

lix. 8. much like the old Christian judicatures of the bishop, the presbyters,
the

deacons, and the people*

f Concerning this precious balsam, see the note on Antiq. B. VIII. ch. vi.

KCt. 6.

