142 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

does not seem to me to be necessary to set down the names of

the seventy [two] elders who-were sent by Eleazar, and carried

the law, which yet were subjoined at the end of the epistle.

However, I thought it not improper to give an account of those

very valuable and artificially contrived vessels which the king

sent to God, that all may see how great a regard tire king had

for God; for the king allowed a vast deal of expenses for these

vessels: and came often to the workmen, and viewed their works,

and suffered nothing of carelessness or negligence to be any da­

mage to their operations. And I will relate how rich they

were as well as I am able, although perhaps the nature of this

history may not require such a description, but I imagine I

shall thereby recommend the elegant taste and magnanimity of

this king to those that read this history.

8. And first I will describe what belongs to the table. It was

indeed in the king's mind to make this table vastly large in its

dimensions; but then he gave orders that they should learn what

was the magnitude of the table which was already at Jerusalem,

and how large it was, and whether there were a possibility of

making one larger than it. And when he was informed how

large that was which was already there, and that nothing hin­

dered but a larger might be made, he said, That " he was wil-

"ling to have one made that should be five times as large as the

"present table, but his fear was, that it might be then useless

"in their sacred ministrations, by its too great largeness; for he

"desired that the gifts he presented them, should not only be

"there for show, but should be useful also in their sacred mi-

"nistrations." According to which reasoning, that the former

table was made of so moderate a size for use, and not for want

of gold, he resolved that he would not exceed the former table

in largeness; but would make it exceed it in the variety and

elegancy of its materials. And as he was sagacious in observing

the nature of all things, and in having a just notion of what was

new and surprising, and where there was no sculptures, he

would invent such as were proper, by his own skill, and would

show them to the workmen, he commanded that such sculptures

should now be made, and that those which were delineated,

should be most accurately formed by a constant regard to their

delineation.

9. When therefore the workmen had undertaken to make the

table, they framed it in length two cubits [and a half,] in

breadth one cubit, and in height one cubit and a half; and the

entire structure of the work was of gold. They withal made a

crown of a hand-breadth round it, with wave-work wreathed

about it, and with an engraving imitated a cord, and was admir­

ably turned on its three parts; for as they Were of a triangular

