298 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

fortifications there were in that place. Phasaelus came also to

his assistance; yet was Pacorus, the general of the Parthians, at

the desire of Antigonus, admitted into the city, with a few of

his horsemen, under pretence indeed as if he would still the se­

dition, but in reality to assist Antigonus in obtaining the go­

vernment. And when Phasaelus met him, and received him

kindly, Pacorus persuaded him to go himself as ambassador to

Barzapharnes, which was done fraudulently. Accordingly, Pha­

saelus, suspecting no harm, complied with his proposal, while

Herod did not give his consent to what was done, because of

the perfidiousness of these Barbarians, but desired Phasaelus

rather to fight those that were come into the city.

5. So both Hyrcanus and Phasaelus went on the embassage;

but Pacorus left with Herod two hundred horsemen, and ten

men, who were called, The freemen; and conducted the others

on their journey; and when they were in Galilee, the governors

of the cities there met them in their arms. Barzapharnes also

received them at the first with cheerfulness, and made them

presents though he afterward conspired against them; and Pha­

saelus, with his horsemen, were conducted to the seaside: But

when they heard that Antigonus had promised to give the Par­

thians a thousand talents, and five hundred women, to assist him

against them, they soon had a suspicion of the Barbarians.

Moreover, there was one who informed them that snares were

laid for them by night, while a guard came secretly, and they

had then been seized upon, had not they waited for the seizure

of Herod by the Parthians, that were about Jerusalem, lest,

upon the slaughter of Hyrcanus and Phasaelus, he should have

an intimation of it, and escape out of their hands. And these

were the circumstances they were now in, and they saw who they

were that guarded them. Some persons indeed would have per­

suaded Phasaelus to fly away immediately on horseback, and

not stay any longer; and there was one Ophellius, who, above

all the rest, was earnest with him to do so, for he had heard of

this treachery from Saramalla, the richest of all the Syrians

at that time, who also promised to provide him ships to

carry him off; for the sea was just by them: but he had no

mind to desert Hyrcanus, nor bring his brother into danger;

but he went to Barzapharnes, and told him he did not act justly

when he made such a contrivance against them, for that if he

wanted money, he would give him more than Antigonus; and

besides, that it was a horrible thing, to slay those that came to

him upon the security of their oaths, and that when they had

done them no injury. But the Barbarian swore to him, that

there was no truth in any of his suspicions, but that he was

troubled with nothing but false proposals, and then went away

to Pacorus.

