Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 408

learned all their concerns, and made the damsel ill-natured to the

young man. And in order to gratify her mother, she often said,

that the young men used to mention Mariamne when they were

by themselves: and that they hated their father, and were con­

tinually threatening, that if they had once got the kingdom, they

would make Herod's sons by his other wives country school­

masters, for that the present education which was given them,

and their diligence in learning, fitted them for such an employ­

ment. And as for the women, whenever they saw them adorn­

ed with their mother's clothes, they threatened, that instead of

their present gaudy apparel, they should be clothed in sackcloth,

and confined so closely that they should not see the light of the

sun. These stories were presently carried by Salome to the

king, who was troubled to hear them, and endeavoured to

make up matters: but these suspicions afflicted him, and be­

coming more and more uneasy, he believed every body against

every body. However, upon his rebuking his sons, and hearing

the defence they made for themselves, he was easier for a while,

though a little afterwards much worse accidents came upon him,

4. For Pheroras came to Alexander, the husband of Glaphy-

ra, who was the daughter of Archelaus, as we have already told

you, and said, that he had heard from Salome, that Herod was

enamoured of Glaphyra, and that his passion for her was in­

curable. When Alexander heard that, he was all on fire, from

his youth and jealousy; and he interpreted the instances of He­

rod's obliging behaviour to her, which were very frequent, for

the worse, which came from those suspicions he had on account

of that word which fell from Pheroras; nor could he conceal his

grief at the thing, but informed him what words Pheroras had

said. Upon which Herod was in a greater disorder than ever;

and not bearing such a false calumny, which was to his shame, was

much disturbed at it: and often did he lament the wickedness of

his domestics, and how good he had been to them, and how ill

requitals they had made him. So he sent for Pheroras, and re­

proached him, and said, " Thou vilest of all men! art thou come

"to that unmeasurable and extravagant degree of ingratitude,

"as not only to suppose such things of me, but to speak of

"them? I now indeed perceive what thy intentions are: it is

"not thy only aim to reproach me, when thou usest such words

"to my son, but thereby to persuade him to plot against me,

"and get me destroyed by poison. And who is there, if he had

"not a good genius at his elbow, as hath my son, but would

"not bear such a suspicion of his father, but would revenge

"himself upon him? Dost thou suppose that thou hast only

"dropped a word for him to think of, and not rather hast put

"a sword into his hand to slay his father? And what dost thou

*->!» n. 8 E 27

