22 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

good order; and when Joram met him in the field of Naboth,

he asked him, if all things were well in the camp? but Jehu re­

proached him bitterly, and ventured to call his mother a witch,

and an harlot. Upon this the king fearing what he intended,

and suspecting he had no good meaning, he turned his chariot

about as soon as he could, and said to Ahaziah, we are fought

against by deceit and treachery: But Jehu drew his bow, and

smote him, the arrow going through his heart: so Joram fell

down immediately on his knee, and gave up the ghost. Jehu

also gave orders to Bidkar, the captain of the third part of his

army, to cast the dead body of Joram into the .field of Naboth,

putting him in mind of the prophecy which Elijah prophesied to

Ahab.his father, when he had slain Naboth, that both he and

his family should perish in that place, for that as tb«ey,sat behind

Ahab's chariot, they heard the prophet say so, and that it was

now come to pass according to his prophecy. Upon the fall of

Joram, Ahaziah was afraid of his own life, and turned his chariot

into another road, supposing he should not be seen by Jehu; but

he followed after him, and overtook him at a certain acclivity,

and drew his bow, and wounded him, so he left his chariot, and

got upon his horse, and fled from Jehu to Megiddo, and though

he was under cure, in a little time he died of that wound, and

was carried to Jerusalem, and buried there, after he had reign­

ed one year, and had proved a wicked man, and worse than his

father, .. .-. u. ', ;<i

4°. Now when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel adorned

herself and stood upon a tower, and said, ".he was a fine servant

"that had killed his master." And when he looked up to her,

he asked who she was? and commanded her to come down to

him. At last he ordered the eunuchs to throw her down from

the tower, and being thrown down, she besprinkled the wall with

her blood, and was trodden upon by the horses, and so died.

When this was done,'Jehu came to the palace with his friends,

and took some refreshment- after his journey, both with .other

things, and by eating a meal. He also bid his servants to take

up Jezebel and bury her, because of the nobility of her blood,

for she was descended from kings; but those that were appointed

to bury her found nothing else remaining but the extreme parts

of her body, for all the rest were eaten by dogs:- When Jehu

heard this, he admired the prophecy of Elijah, for he foretold

that she should perish in this manner at Jezreel.

5. Now Ahab had seventy sons brought up in Samaria. So

to Jehu, and at length to go out with king Ahaziah to meet him, and all this

affcr he was come within eight of the watchman, and before lie was come to

Jczru I, the probability is greatly un the side of Josephus' copy or intcrpre-

Utiot).

