12 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

rians lying in ambush to kill him. So the king did as the pro­

phet exhorted him, and avoided his going a hunting. And when

Benhadad missed of the success of his lying in ambush, he was

wroth with his own,servants, as if they had betrayed his am-

bushment to Joram, and sent for them, and said they were

the betrayers of his secret counsels; and he threatened that he

would put them to death, since such their practice was evident,

because he had intrusted this secret to none but them, and yet it

was made known to his enemy. And when one that was pre­

sent said, that " he should not mistake himself; nor suspect that

"they h.ad discovered to his enemy his sending men to kill him,

"but that he ought to know that it was Elisha the prophet

"who discovered all to him, and laid open all his counsels," he

gave order that they should send some to learn in what city Eli­

sha dwelt. Accordingly those thatwere sent brought word, that

he was in Dothan: wherefore Benhadad sent to that city a great

army, with horses and chariots, to take Elisha; so they encom­

passed the city round about by night, and kept him therein con­

fined: but when the prophet's servant in the morning perceived

this, and that his enemies sought to take Elisha, he came running

and crying out after a disordered manner to him, and told him

of it; but he encouraged him, and bid him not be afraid, and

to despise the enemy, and trust in the assistance of God, and was

himself without fear; and he besought God to make manifest

to his servant his power and presence, so far as was possible, in

order to the inspiring him with hope and courage. According­

ly God heard the prayer of the prophet, and made the servant

see a multitude of chariots and horses encompassing Elisha, till

he laid aside his fear, and his courage revived at the sight of

what he supposed was come to their assistance. After this Eli­

sha did farther entreat God, that he would dim the eyes of their

enemies, and cast a mist before them, whereby they might not

discern him. When this was done, he went into the midst of

his enemies, and asked them who it was that they came to seek?

and when they replied, the prophet Elisha, he promised he would

deliver him to them, if they would follow him to the city where

he was. So these men were so darkened by God in their sight

and in their mind, that they followed him very diligently; and

when Elisha had brought them to Samaria, he ordered Joram

the king to shut the gates, and to place his own army round

forth offer neither burnt-offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the
Lord,

ndds, In this thing the Lord pardon thy servant, that when my master goeth

into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on my hands, and

I bow myself in the house of Rimmon; when I how down myself in the house

of Rimmon, the Lord pardon thy servant in this thing. And Elisha said, Go in

peace." This looks like a prophet's permission for being partaker in idolatry
itself,

out of compliance with an idolatrous court.

