Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 1 S3

into it, and saw how strong the place was, he broke his oaths,

and ordered his army that was there to pluck down the walls

to the ground, and when he had so done, he returned to An-

tioch: he also carried with him Onias the high priest, who was

also called Menelaus; for Lysias advised the king to slay Mene-

laus, if he would have the Jews be quiet, and cause him no

farther disturbance, for that this man was the origin of all the

mischief the Jews had done them, by persuading his father to

compel the Jews to leave the religion of their fathers: So the

king sent Menelaus to Berea, a city of Syria, and there had him>

put to death, when he had been high priest ten years. He had

been a wicked and an impious man: and, in order to get the go­

vernment to himself, had compelled his nation to transgress their

own laws. After the death of Menelaus, Alcimus, who was

also called Jacimus, was made high priest. But when king An-

tiochus found that Philip had already possessed himself of the

government, he made war against him, and subdued him, and

took him and slew him. Now, as to Onias the son of the high

priest, who, as we before informed you, was left a child when

his father died, when he saw that the king had slain his uncle

Menelaus, and given the high priesthood to Alcimus, who was

not of the high priest stock, but as induced by Lysias to translate

that dignity from this family to another house, he fled to Ptole­

my, king of Egypt, and when he found he was in great esteem

with him, and with his wife Cleopatra, he desired and obtained

a place in the Nomus of Heliopolis, wherein he built a temple

like to that at Jerusalem: of which therefore we shall hereafter

give an account in a place more proper for it.

CHAP. X.

How Bacchides, the general of Demetrius' army, made an expe­

dition against Judea, and returned without success; and haw

Nicanor was sent a little afterward against Judas, andperish-

ed, together with his army : as also concerning the death of Al­

cimus, and the succession of Judas.

§ 1. ABOUT the same time Demetrius, the son of Seleucus,

fled away from Rome, and took Tripoli, a city of Syria, and

set the diadem on his own head. He also gathered certain

mercenary soldiers together, and entered into his kingdom, and

was joyfully received by all, who delivered themselves up to him.

And when they had taken Antiochus the king, and Lysias, they

brought them to him alive; both which were immediately put

to death by the command of Demetrius, when Antiochus had

reigned two years, as we have already elsewhere related. But

there were now many of the wicked Jewish runagates that came

