Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 221

"occasion was, that the ambassadors sent by the * people of the

"Jews, Simon the son of Dositheus, and Apollonius, the son

"of Alexander, and Diodorus, the son of Jason, who were

"good and virtuous men, had somewhat to propose about that

"league of friendship and mutual assistance which subsisted be-

"tween them and the Romans, and about other public affairs,

"who desired that Joppa, and the havens, and Gazara, and the

"springs [of Jordan,] and the several other cities and countries

"of theirs, which Antiochus had taken from them in the war,

"contrary to the decree of the senate, might be restored to them;

"and that it might not be lawful for the king's troops to pass

"through their country, and the countries of those that are

"subject to them: And that what attempts Antiochus had

"made during that war, without the decree of the senate, might

"be made void: and that they would send ambassadors, who

"should take care that restitution be made them of what An-

"tiochus had taken from them, and that they should make an

"estimate of the country that had been laid waste in the war,

"and that they would grant them letters of protection to the

"kings, and free people, in order to their quiet return home.

"It was therefore decreed, as to those points, to renew their

"league of friendship and mutual assistance with these good

"men, and who were sent by a good and a friendly people."

But that as to the letters desired, their answer was, that the

senate would consult about that matter, when their own affairs

would give them leave, and that they would endeavour, for the

time to come, that no like injury should be done them; and

that their pretor Fanius should give them money out of the

public treasury to bear their expenses home. And thus did

Fanius dismiss the Jewish ambassadors, and gave them money

out of the public treasury; and gave the decree of the senate

to those that were to conduct them, and take care that they

should return home in safety.

3. And thus stood the affairs of Hyrcanus the high priest. But

as for king Demetrius, who had a mind to make war against

Hyrcanus, there was no opportunity nor room for it, while both

the Syrians and the soldiers bare ill will to him, because he was

an ill man. But when they had sent ambassadors to Ptolemy,

who was called Physcon, that he would send them one of the fa­

mily at Seleucus, in order to take the kingdom, and he had sent

them Alexander, who was called Zebina, with an army, and there

had been a battle between them, Demetrius was beaten in the

fight, and fled to Cleopatra his wife, to Ptolemais, but his wife

* In this decree of the Roman Senate, it seems that these ambassadors were  
sent from the people of the Jews, as well as from their prince, or high
priest, John

Hyrcauus*

vor-. iI. F r 21

