194 iNTiyuiTiEs OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

Syria, and took Ptolemais, the soldiers within having betray­

ed it to him, for they were at enmity with Demetrius, on ac­

count of his insolence and difficulty of access; for he shut him­

self up in a palace of his that had four towers, which he had

built himself, not far from Antioch, and admitted nobody. He

was withal slothful and negligent about the public affairs, where­

by the hatred of his subjects was the more kindled against him,

as we have elsewhere already related. When therefore Deme­

trius heard tkat Alexander was in Jftolemais, he took his whole

army, and led it against him: he also sent ambassadors to Jona­

than, about a league of mutual assistance and friendship, for he

resolved to be beforehand witii Alexander, lest the other should

treat with him first, and gain assistance from him: And this he

did out of the fear he had, lest Jonathan should remember how

ill Demetrius had formerly treated him, and should join with

him in this war against him. He therefore gave orders that

Jonathan should be allowed to raise an army, and should get ar­

mour made, and should receive back those hostages of the Jewish

nation whom Bacchides had shut up in the citadel of Jerusalem.

When this good fortune had befallen Jonathan, by the concession

of Demetrius, he came to Jerusalem, and read tne kmg's letter,

in the audience of the people, and of those that kept the citadel.

When these were read, these wicked men and deserters, who

were in the citadel, were greatly afraid, upon the king's per­

mission to Jonathan to raise an army, and to receive back the

hostages: So he delivered every one of them to his own pa­

rents. And thus did Jonathan make his abode at Jerusalem,

renewing the city to a better state, and reforming the buildings

as he pleased; for he gave orders that the walls of the city

should be rebuilt with square stones, that it might be more se­

cure from their enemies. And when those that kept the garri­

sons that were in Judea saw this, they all left them, and fled to

Antioch, excepting those that were in the city of Bethsura, and

those that were in the citadel of Jerusalem, for the greater part

of these was of the wicked Jews and deserters, and on that ac­

count these did not deliver up their garrisons.

2. When Alexander knew what promises Demetrius had

yet is by several historians deemed to be a counterfeit, and of no family at
all, is,

however, by Josephus believed to have been the real son of that Antiochus, and
by

him always spoken of accordingly. And truly, since the original cotemporary
and

authentic author of the first book of Maccab. ch. x. 1. calls him by his
father's name

Epiphanes, and says he was the son of Antiochus, I suppose the other writers,
who

are all much later, are not to be followed against such evidence, though
perhaps

Epiphanes might have him by a woman of no family. The king of Egypt also,

Philometer, soon gave him his daughter in marriage, which he would hardly have

done, had he believed him to be a counterfeit, and of so very mean a birth as
the

later historians pretend.

