324 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X V

and this Herod was the third, who took that high office away

[from Ananelus,] and gave it to this young man, Aristobulus,

in his stead.

2. And now Herod seemed to have healed the divisions in his

family: yet was he not without suspicion, as is frequently the

case, of people seeming to be reconciled to one another, but

thought that, as Alexandra had already made attempts tending

to innovations, so did he fear that she would go on therein, if

she found a fit opportunity for so doing; so he gave a command,

that she should dwell in the palace, and meddle with no public

affairs: her guards also were so careful, that nothing she did in

private life every day was concealed. All these hardships put

her out of patience, by little and little, and she began to hate

Herod; for as she had the pride of a woman to the utmost de­

gree, she had great indignation at this suspicious guard that was

about her, as desirous rather to undergo any thing that could be­

fall her, than to be deprived of her liberty of speech, and, under

the notion of an honorary guard, to live in a state of slavery

and terror. She therefore sent to Cleopatra, and made a long

complaint of the circumstances she was in, and entreated her to

do her utmost for her assistance. Cleopatra hereupon advised

her to take her son with her, and come away immediately to her

into Egypt. This advice pleased her; and she had this contri­

vance for getting away: she got two coffins made, as if they

were to carry away two dead bodies, and put herself into one,

and her son into the other, and gave orders to such of her

servants, as knew of her intentions, to carry them away in the

night time. Now their road was to be thence to the seaside,

and there was a ship ready to carry them into Egypt. Now

JEsop, one of her servants, happened to fall upon Sabion, one

of her friends, and spake of this matter to him, as thinking he

had known of it before. -When Sabion knew this, (who had for­

merly been an enemy of Herod's, and been esteemed one of those

that laid snares for, and gave the poison to [his father] Antipa-

ter,) he expected that this discovery would change Herod's

hatred into kindness, so he told the king of this private strata­

gem of Alexandra's: Whereupon he suffered her to proceed

to the execution of her project, and caught her in the very

fact, but still he passed by her offence: and though he had

a great mind to do it, he durst not inflict any thing that was

severe upon her, for he knew that Cleopatra would not bear

that he should have her accused, on account of her hatred to

him, but made a show as if it were rather the generosity of his

soul, and his great moderation, that made him forgive them.

However, he fully proposed to himself to put this young man

out of the way, by one means or other; but he thought he migh t

