Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, 257

Strabo of Cappadocia mentions this present in these words:

"There came also an embassage out of Eygpt, and a crown of

"the value of four thousand pieces of gold, and out of Judea

"there came another, whether you call it a vine or a garden:

"They called the thing TERPULE, The delight. However, we

"ourselves saw that present reposited at Rome, in the temple

"of Jupiter Capitolinus, with this inscription, The gift of Alex-

"ander the king of the Jews. It was valued at five hundred

"talents; and the report is, that Aristobulus, the governor of

"the Jews, sent it."

2. In a little time afterward came ambassadors again to him,

Antipater from Hyrcanus, and Nicodemus from Aristobulus;

which last also accused such as had taken bribes, first Gabinius,

and then Scaurus, the one three hundred talents, and the other

four hundred; by which procedure he made these two his ene足

mies, besides those he had before. And when Pompey had or足

dered those that had controversies one with another to come to

him in the beginning of the spring, he brought his army out of

their winter quarters, and marched into the country of Damas足

cus; and as he went along he demolished the citadel that was

at Apamia, which Antiochus Cyzicenus had built, and took

cognizance of the country of Ptolemy Menneus, a wicked man,

and not less so than Dionysius of Tripoli, who had been be足

headed, who was also his relation by marriage; yet did he buy

off the punishment of his crimes for a thousand talents, witli

which money Pompey paid the soldiers their wages. He also

conquered the place called Lysias, of which Silas a Jew, was

tyrant. And when he had passed over the cities of Helio-

polis and Chalcis, and got over the mountain which is on

the .limit of Celesyria, he came from Pella to Damascus; and

there it was that he heard the causes of the Jews, and of their

governors Hyrcanus and Aristobulus, who were at difference

one with another, as also of the nation against them both,

which did not .desire to be under kingly government, because

the form of government they received from their forefathers

was that of subjection to the priests of that God whom they

worshipped, and [they complained,] that though these two

were the posterity of priests, yet did they seek to change the

government of their nation to another form, in order to enslave

them. Hyrcanus complained, that although he were the elder

brother, he was deprived of the prerogative of his birth by

Pompey, they are both very improbable, and no way agreeable to Josephus, who

would hardly have avoided the recording both ihese uncommon points of history,

had he known any of them; nor would either the Jewish naiion, or even PompeJ

himself, then hare relished such a flagrant instance of sacrilege.

