Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 109

regard to the observation of the law than to their natural af­

fection, and immediately cast out their wives, and the children

which were born of them. And in order to appease God, they

offered sacrifices, and slew rams, as oblations to him; but it does

not seem to me to be necessary to set down the names of these

men. So when Esdras had reformed this sin about the mar­

riages of the forementioned persons, he reduced that practice to

purity, so that it continued in that state for the time to come.

5. Now when they kept the * feast of tabernacles in the se­

venth month, and almost all the people were come together to it,

they went up to the open part of the temple, to the gate which

looked eastward, and desired of Esdras that the laws of Moses

might be read to them. Accordingly he stood in the midst of

the multitude and read them; and this he did from morning to

noon. Now, by hearing the laws read to them, they were in­

structed to be righteous men for the present and for the future;

but as for their past offences, they were displeased at themselves,

and proceeded to shed tears on their account, as considering with

themselves, that if they had kept the law, they had endured none

of these miseries which they had experienced. But when Esdras

saw them in that disposition, he bade them go home and not weep,

for that it was a festival, and that they ought not to weep there­

on, for that it was f not lawful so to do. He exhorted them ra­

ther to proceed immediately to feasting, and to do what was suit­

able to a feast, and what was agreeable to a day of joy, but

to let their repentance and sorrow for their former sins be a se­

curity and a guard to them, that they fall no more into the like

offences. So upon Esdras' exhortation they began to feast;-

and when they had so done for eight days, in their tabernacles,

they departed to their own homes, singing hymns to God, and

returning thanks to Esdras, for his reformation of what cor­

ruptions had been introduced into their settlement. So it came

w pass, that after he had obtained this reputation among the

to the strictness of the law of Moses, without any regard to the greatness of
those

who had broken it, and without regard to that natural affection or compassion
for

their heathen wives, and their children hy them, which made it so hard for
Ezra to

correct it, deserves greatly to be observed and imitated in all attempts for
reforma­

tion among Christians, the contrary conduct having ever been the bane of true
reli­

gion, both among Jews and Christians, while political views, or human
passions, or

prudential motives, are suffered to take place instead of the divine laws, and
so the

blessing of God is forfeited, and the church still suffered to continue
corrupt from

one generation to another. See chap. viii. sect. 2."

* This Jewish feast of tabernacles was imitated in several hentben solemnities, as  
Spanheim here observes and proves. He also farther observes presently, what
great

regard many heathens had to the monuments of their forefathers, as Nehemiah
had

here, sect. 6.

t This rule of Ezra's not to fast on a festival day, is quoted in the
Apostolical

Constitutions, B. V. as obtaining among Christians also.

