5J4 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

"it was a most excellent and most pleasing sight to a good and

"a righteous man to see the wicked punished." So Jehonadab

was persuaded by these arguments and came up into Jehu's

chariot, and came to Samaria. And Jehu sought out for all

Ahab's kindred, and slew them. And being desirous that none

of the false prophets nor the priests of Ahab's god, might es­

cape punishment, he caught them deceitfully by this wile: for

he gathered all the people together, and said, That " he would

"worship twice as many gods as Ahab worshipped, and desired

"that his priests, and prophets, and servants might be present

"because he would offer costly and great sacrifices to Ahab's

"god, and that if any of his priests were wanting, they should

"be punished with death." Now Ahab's god.was called Baal.

And when he had appointed a day on which he would offer those

sacrifices, he sent messengers through all the country of the Is­

raelites, that they might bring the priests of Baal to him. So

Jehu commanded to give all the priests vestments; and when

they had received them, he went into the house [of Baal,] with

his friend Jehonadab, and gave orders to make search whether

there were not any foreigner or stranger among them, for he

would have no one of a different religion to mix among their

sacred offices. And when they said that there was no stranger

there, and they were beginning their sacrifices, he set fourscore

men without,- they being such of his soldiers as he knew to be

most faithful to him, and bid them slay the prophets, and now

vindicate the laws of their country, which had been a long time

in disesteem. He also threatened, that if any one of them es­

caped, their own lives should go for them. So they slew them

all with the sword, and burnt the house of Baal; and by that

means purged Samaria of foreign customs, [idolatrous worship.]

Now this Baal was the god of the Tyrians; and Ahab, in order

to gratify his father-in-law, Ethbaal, who was the king of Tyre

and Sidon, built a temple for him in Samaria, and appointed him

prophets, and worshipped him with all sorts of worship, although,

tvhen this god was demolished, Jehu permitted the Israelites to

worship the golden heifers. However, because he had done thus,

and taken care to punish the wicked, God foretold by his pro­

phet, that his sons should reign over Israel for four generations:

And in this condition was Jehu at this time.

CHAP. VII.

flow Athaliah reigned over Jerusalem for Jive [six] years, when

Jehoiada the high priest slew her, and made Jehoash the son

of Ahaziah king.

§ 1. jN ow when Atnaliah, the daughter of Ahab heard of

the death of her brother Jnram. and of her son Ahaziah,

