Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 125

"danger of perishing, and this by laying accusations and calum-

'" nies: Nor is this state of things to be discovered by ancient

"examples, or such as we have learned by report only; but by

"some examples of such impudent attempts under our own eyes,

"so that it is not fit to attend any longer to calumnies and accu-

"sations, nor to the persuasions of others, but to determine

"what any one knows of himself to have been really done, and

"to punish what justly deserves it, and to grant favours to such

"as are innocent. This hath been the case of Haman, the son

"of Ammedatha, by birth an Amalekite, and alien from the

"blood of the Persians, who, when he was hospitably entertained

"by us, and partook of that kindness which we bear to all men, to

"so great a degree, as to be called my father, and to be all alone

"worshipped, and to have honour paid him by all in the second

"rank after the royal honour due to ourselves, he could not

"bear his good fortune, nor govern the magnitude of his pros-

"perity with sound reason; nay, he made a conspiracy against

"me and my life, who gave him his authority, by endeavouring to

"take away Mordecai, my benefactor, andmy saviour, and by base-

"ly and treacherously requiring to have Esther, the partner of my

'life, and of my dominion, brought to destruction; for he contri-

'ved by this means to * deprive me of my faithful friends, and

'transfer the government to others: But since I perceived that

'these Jews, that were by this pernicious fellow devoted to de-

'struction, were not wicked men, but conducted their lives af-

"ter the best manner, and were men dedicated to the worship of

"that God who hath preserved the kingdom to me and to my

"ancestors, I do not only free them from the punishment which

"the former epistle, which was sent by Haman, ordered to be

"inflicted on them, to which if you refuse obedience, you shall

"do well, but I will that they have all honour paid to them. Ac-

"cordingly, I have hanged up the man that contrived such things

"against them, with his family, before the gates of Shushan,

"that punishment being sent upon him by God, who seeth all

"things. And I give you in charge, that you publicly propose

"a copy of this epistle through all my kingdom, that the Jews

"may be permitted peaceably to use their own laws, and that

* These words give an intimation as if Artaxerxes suspected a deeper design in  
Haman than openly appeared, viz. That knowing the Jews would be faithful to
him,

and that he could never transfer the crown to his own family, who was an
Agagite,

Esth. iii. 1, 10. or of the posterity of A gag, the old king of the
Amalekites, 1 Sam.

xv. 8, 32, 33. while they were olive, and spread over all his dominions, he
there­

fore endeavoured to destroy them. Nor is it to me improbable, that those
73,800

of the Jews' enemies which were soon destroyed by the Jews, on the permission
of

the king, which must be on some great occasion, were Amalekites, their old and

hereditary enemies, Exod. xvii. 14, 15. and that thereby was fulfilled Balaam:

prophecy, "Amalek was the first of the nations, but his Utter end shall be,
that he

"perish for ever." Num. xxiv. 20.

