Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 253

his adversaries that had fled thither, and lay within the walls of

the temple. So when he had sent a message to his brother about

agreeing the matters between them, he laid aside his enmity to

him on these conditions, that Aristobulus should be king, that

he should live without intermeddling with public affairs, and

quietly enjoy the estate he had acquired. When they had agreed

upon these terms in the temple, and had confirmed the agree­

ment with oaths, and the giving one another their right hands,

and embracing one another in the sight of the whole multitude,

they departed; the one, Aristobulus, to the palace; and Hyrcan-

us, as a private man, to the former house of Aristobulus.

3. But there was a certain friend of Hyrcanus', an Idumean,

called Antipater, who was very rich, and in his nature an active

and a seditious man; who was at enmity with Aristobulus, and

had differences with him on account of his good will to Hyrcan­

us. It is true that Nicolaus of Damascus says, that Antipater

was of the stock of the principal Jews who came out of Babylon

into Judea; but that assertion of his was to gratify Herod, who

was his son, and who, by certain revolutions of fortune, came af­

terward to be king of the Jews, whose history we shall give you

in its proper place hereafter. However, this Antipater was at

first called * Antipas, and that was his father's name also: oi

whom they relate this, that king Alexander and his wife made

him general of all Idumea, and that he made a league of friend­

ship with those Arabians, and Gazites, and Ascalonites, that

were of his own party, and had, by many and large presents,

made them his fast friends. But now, this younger Antipater

was suspicious of the power of Aristobulus, and was afraid of

some mischief he might do him, because of his hatred to him, so

he stirred up the most powerful of the Jews and talked against

him to them privately; and said, that "it was unjust to over-

"look the conduct of Aristobulus, who had gotten the government

"unrighteously, and ejected his brother out of it, who was the

"elder, and ought to retain what belonged to him by preroga-

"tive of his birth." And the same speeches he perpetually

made to Hyrcanus; and told him, that his own life would be

in danger, unless he guarded himself, and got shut of Aristobu­

lus; for he said, that the friends of Aristobulus omitted no op­

portunity of advising him to kill him, as being then, and not be­

fore, sure to retain his principality. Hyrcanus gave no credit

to these words of his, as being of a gentle disposition, and

one that did not easily admit of calumnies against other men.

* That the famous Antipater's or Antipas' father was also Antipater or 4ntipas  
(which two may justly be esteemed one and the same name, the former with a

Greek or Gentile, the latter with a Hebrew or Jewish termination,) Josephus
here

assures us, though Eusebius indeed says it was Herod.

