Chap. VI. ANTIgUITIES OF THE JEWS. 169

"other nations would obey the commands of Antiochus, either

"out of fear, or to please him, yet would not he nor his sons

"leave the religious worship of their country." But as soon as

he had ended his speech, there came one of the Jews into the

midst of them, and sacrificed, as Antiochus had commanded. At

which Mattathias had great indignation, and ran upon him vio­

lently, with his sons, who had swords with them, and slew both

the man himself that sacrificed, and Apelles the king's general,

who compelled them to sacrifice, with a few of his soldiers. He

also overthrew the idol altar; and cried out, "If, said he, any

"one be zealous for the laws of his country, and for the worship

"of God, let him follow me." And when he had said this, he

made haste into the desert with his sons, and left all his substance

in the village. Many others did the same also, and fled with

their children and wives into the desert, and dwelt in caves.

But when the king's generals heard this, they took all the forces

they then had in the citadel at Jerusalem, and pursued the Jews

into the desert; and when they had overtaken them, they in the

first place endeavoured to persuade them to repent, and to choose

what was most for their advantage, and not put them to the

necessity of using them according to the law of war. But when

they would not comply with their persuasions, but continued to

be of a different mind, they fought against them on the Sabbath-

day, and they burnt them, as they were in the caves, without re­

sistance, and without so much as stoppingup the entrances of the

caves. And they avoided to defend themselves on that day,

because they were not willing to break in upon the honour they

owed the Sabbath, even in such distresses, for our law requires

that we rest upon that day. There were about a thousand, with

their wives and children, who were smothered, and died in these

caves; but many of those that escaped joined themselves to Mat­

tathias, and appointed him to be their ruler, who taught them

to fight, even on the Sabbath-day; and told them, that " unless

"they would do so, they would become their own enemies, by

"observing the law [so rigorously,] while their adversaries would

"still assault them on this day, and they would not then defend

"themselves, and that nothing could then hinder but they must

"all perish without fighting." This speech persuaded them.

And this rule continues among us to this day, that if there be

a necessity, we may fight on Sabbath-days. So Mattathias got

a great army about him, and overthrew their idol altars, and

slew those that broke the laws, even all that he could get under

his power, for many of them were dispersed among the nations

round about them for fear of him. He also commanded, that

those boys which were not yet circumcised should be circumcised

now; and he drove those away that were appointed to hinder such

their circumcision.

