Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS 177

ers, and to endeavour to save his own countrymen out of their

hands. To this exhortation Judas hearkened and returned into

the wilderness; and in the first place fell upon the inhabitants ot

Bosor, and took the city, and beat the inhabitants, and destroyed

all the males, and all that were able to fight, and burnt the city.

Nor did he stop -even when night came on, but he journeyed in

it to the garrison where the Jews happened to be then shut up,

and where Timotheus lay round the place with his army: and

Judas came upon the city in the morning; and when he found

that the enemy were making an assault upon the walls, and that

some of them brought ladders, on which they might get upon

those walls, and that others brought engines to [batter them],

he bid the trumpeter to sound his trumpet, and he encouraged

his soldiers cheerfully to undergo dangers for the sake of their

brethren and kindred; he also parted his army into three bo足

dies, and fell upon the backs of their enemies. But when Ti足

motheus' men perceived that it was Maccabeus that was upon

them, of both whose courage and good success in war they .had

formerly had sufficient experience, they were put to flight; but

Judas followed them with his army, and slew about eight thou足

sand of them. He then turned aside to a city of the foreigners

called Mails, and took it, and slew all the males, and burnt the

city itself. He then removed from thence, and overthrew Cas-

peom, and Bosor, and many other cities of the land of Gilead.

4. But not long after this Timotheus prepared a great army,

and took many others as auxiliaries, and induced some of the

Arabians, by the promise of rewards, to go with him in this

expedition, and came with his army beyond the brook, over

against the city Raphon. And he encouraged his soldiers, if it

came to a battle with the Jews, to fight courageously, and to

hinder their passing over the brook: for he said to them before足

hand, That "if they come over it, we shall be beaten." And

when Judas heard that Timotheus prepared himself to fight, he

took all his own army, and went in haste against Timotheus his

enemy; and when he had passed over the brook, he fell upon

his enemies, and some of them met him, whom he slew, and

others of them he so terrified, that he compelled them to throw

down their arms, and fly; and some of them escaped, but some

of them fled to what was called the temple at Carnaim, and

hoped thereby to preserve themselves; but Judas took the city,

and slew them, and burnt the temple, and so used several ways

of destroying his enemies.

5. When he had done this, he gathered the Jews together,

with their children, and wives, and the substance that belonged

to them, and was going to bring them back into Judea: but as

soon as he was come to a certain city, whose name was Ephron.

