Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE jtws. 29

/

ed, for the good counsel he had given them, and how he perish足

ed after a most severe and violent manner for the good deeds

his father had done to Jehoash.

4. However, it was not long before the king suffered punish足

ment for his transgression; for when Hazael, king of Syria,

made an irruption into his country, and when he had overthrown

Gath, and spoiled it, he made an expedition against Jerusalem:

upon which Jehoash was afraid, and emptied all the treasures of

God, and of the kings [before him], and took down the gifts

that had been dedicated, [in the temple], and sent them to the

king of Syria, and procured so much by them, that he was not

besieged, nor his kingdom quite endangered, but Hazael was in足

duced by the greatness of the sum of money not to bring his ar足

my against Jerusalem: yet Jehoash fell into a severe distempter,

and was set upon by his friends, in order to revenge the death of

Zachariah the son of Jehoiada. These laid snares for the king

and slew him. He was indeed buried in Jerusalem, but not in

the royal sepulchres of his forefathers, because of his impiety;

He lived forty-seven years, and Amaziah his son succeeded him

in the kingdom.

5. In the one and twentieth year of the reign of Jehoash, Je-

hoahaz, the son of Jehu, took the government of the Israelites in

Samaria, and held it seventeen years. He did not [properly]

imitate his father, but was guilty of as wicked practices as those

that first had God in contempt: but the king of Syria brought

him low, and by an expedition against him did so greatly reduce

his forces, that there remained no more of so great an army than

ten thousand armed men, and fifty horsemen. He also took

away from him his great cities, and many of them also, and

destroyed his army. And these were the things that the people

of Israel suffered, according to the prophecy of Elisha, when he

foretold that Hazael would kill his master, and reign over the ,

Syrians and Damascenes. But when Jehoahaz was under such!

unavoidable miseries, he had recourse to prayer and supplication

to God, and besought him to deliver him out of the hands of

Hazael, and not overlook him, and give him up into his hands.

Accordingly, God accepted of his repentance instead of virtue,

and being desirous rather to admonish those that might repent,

and not to determine that they should be utterly destroyed, he

granted him deliverance from wars and dangers. So the country

having obtained peace, returned again to its former condition,

and flourished as before.

6. Now after the death of Jehoahaz, his son Joash took the

kingdom, in the thirty-seventh year of Jehoash, the king of the

tribe of Judak. This Joash then took the kingdom of Israel in

Samaria, for he had the same name with the king of Jerusalem,

