Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 273

"obliging manner, and sees that they are conducted back in

"safety, of which we have had several former testimonies, it

"is now also decreed, at the report of Theodosius, the son of

"Theodorus, and upon his putting the people in mind of the

"virtue of this man, and that his purpose is to do us all the

"good that is in his power, to honour him with a crown of gold,

"the usual reward according to the law, and to erect his statue

"in brass in the temple of Demus, and of the graces; and that

"this present of a crown shall be proclaimed publicly in the

"theatre, in the Dionysian shows, while the new tragedies are

"acting; and in the Panathenean, and Eleusinian, and Gymni-

"cal shows also; and that the commanders shall take care, while

"he continues in his friendship, and preserves his good-will to

"us, to return all possible honour and favour to the man for

"his affection and generosity; that by this treatment it may

"appear how our people receive the good kindly; and repay

"them a suitable reward; and he may be induced to proceed

"in his affection towards us, by the honours we have already

"paid him. That ambassadors be also chosen out of all the

"Athenians, who shall carry this decree to him, and desire him

"to accept of the honours we do him, and to endeavour always

"to be doing some good to our city." And this shall suffice

us to have spoken as to the honours that were paid by the Ro­

mans and the people of Athens to Hyrcanus.

CHAP. IX.

How Antipater committed the care of Galilee to Herod, and. that

of Jerusalem to Phasaelus; as also, how Herod, upon the Jews'

envy at Antipater, was accused before Hyrcanus.

§ 1. .Now when Caesar had settled the affairs of Syria, he

sailed away; And as soon as Antipater had conducted Caesar

out of Syria, he returned to Judea. He then immediately

raised up the wall which had been thrown down by Pompey;

and, by coming thither, he pacified that tumult which had

been in the country; and this by both threatening and advising

them to be quiet: For that "If they would be of Hyrcanus'

"side, they would live happily, and lead their lives without

"disturbance, in the enjoyment of their own possessions; but if

"they were addicted to the hopes of what might come by in-

"novation, and aimed to get wealth thereby, they should have

"him a severe master, instead of a gentle governor, and Hyr-

"canus a tyrant, instead of a king, and the Romans, together

"with Caesar, their bitter enemies, instead of rulers, for that

"they would never bear him to be set aside whom they had ap»

