394 ANTIO.UITIES or THE JEWS. Book XVI.

"turned his speech to the admonition of his sons; and exhorted

"those that lived at court, and the multitude, to concord: and

"informed them, that his sons were to resign after him; Anti-

"pater first, and then Alexander and Aristobulus, the sons of

"Mariamne; but he desired that at present they should all have

"regard to himself, and esteem him king and lord of all, since

"he was not yet hindered by old age, but was in that period ot

"life when he must be the most skilful in governing; and that

"he was not deficient in other arts of management that might

"enable him to govern the kingdom well, and to rule over his

"children also. He farther told the rulers under him, and the

"soldiery, that in case they would look upon him alone, their

"life would be led in a peaceable manner, and they would make

"one another happy." And when he had said this, he dismissed

the assembly. Which speech was acceptable to the greatest

part of the audience, but not so to them all, for the contention

among his sons, and the hopes he had given them, occasioned

thoughts and desires of innovations among them.

CHAP. V.

How Herod celebrated the games that were to return every Jifth

year, upon the building of Ccesarea , - and hem he built and

adorned many other places after a magnificent manner; and did

many other actions gloriously.

§ 1. ABOUT this time it was that Caesarea Sebaste, which he

had built, was finished. The entire building being accomplish­

ed in the tenth year, the solemnity of it fell into the twenty-

eight year of Herod's reign, and into the hundred and ninety-

second olympiad: There was accordingly a great festival, and

most sumptuous preparations made presently, in order to its

dedication, for he had appointed a contention in music, and

games to be performed naked: He had also gotten ready a

great number of those that fight single combats, and of beasts

lor the like purpose: horse races also, and the most chargeable

of such sports and shows as used to be exhibited at Rome, and

in other places. He consecrated this combat to Caesar, and or­

dered it to be celebrated every fifth year. He also sent all sorts

of ornaments for it out of his own furniture, that it might want

nothing to make it decent: nay Julia, Caesar's wife, sent a great

part of her most valuable furniture [from Rome,] insomuch

that he had no want of any thing: The sum of them all .was esti­

mated at five hundred talents. Now when a great multitude was

come to that city, to see the shows, as well as the ambassadors

whom other people sent, on account of the benefits they had re­

