206 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

diers very hardly, neither remembering the league of mutual as足

sistance that was between them, nor that he was his son-in-law

and kinsman, by Cleopatra's marriage to him; so the soldiers

fled from his wicked treatment to Alexandria, but Demetrius

kept his elephants. But Jonathan the high priest, levied an

army out of all Judea, and attacked the citadel at Jerusalem,

and besieged it; it was held by a garrison of Macedonians, and

by some of those wicked men who had deserted the customs of

their forefathers. These men at first despised the attempts of

Jonathan for taking the place, as depending on its strength; but

some of those wicked men went out by night and came to De足

metrius, and informed him, that the citadel was besieged; who

was irritated with what he heard, and took his army, and came

from Antioch, against Jonathan. And when he was at An-

tioch, he wrote to him, and commanded him to come to

him quickly to Ptolemais: upon which Jonathan did not in足

termit the siege of the citadel, but took with him the elders of

the people, and the priests, and carried with him gold, and silver,

and garments, and a great number of presents of friendship, and

came to Demetrius, and presented him with them, and thereby

pacified the king's anger. So he was honoured by him, and re足

ceived from him the confirmation of his high priesthood, as he

had possessed it by the grants of the kings his predecessors. And

when the Jewish deserters accused him, Demetrius was so far

from giving credit to them, that when he petitioned him that he

would demand no more than three hundred talents for the tribute

of all Judea, and the three toparchies of Samaria and Perea, and

Galilee, he complied, with the proposal, and gave him a letter

confirming all those grants, whose contents were as follows:

"King Demetrius to Jonathan his brother, and to the nation of

"the Jews, sendeth greeting: We have sent you a copy of that

"epistle which we have written to Lasthenes our kinsman, that

"you may know its contents. King Demetrius to Lasthenes our

"lather, sendeth greeting: I have determined to return thanks,

"and to show favour to the nation of the Jews, which hath ob-

"served the rules ofjusticeinourconcerns. Accordingly, I remit

"to them the three prefectures, Apherimo, and Lydda, and Ra-

"matha, which have been added to Judea out of Samaria, with

"their appurtenances: As also what the kings my predecessors

"received from those that offered sacrifices in Jerusalem, and

"what are due from the fruits of the earth, and of the trees,

"and what else belongs to us; with the salt pits and the crowns

"that used to be presented to us! Nor shall they be compelled

his coins still extant; as Hudson and Spanheim inform us; the latter of whom
gives

us here the entire inscription, Xing Demetrius the God, Philatklphus Nicator.

