Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 223

Ptolemy being * for this cause released from the war, he slew

the brethren of Hyrcanus, and his mother: and when he had

so done he fled to Zeno, who was called Cotylas, who was then

the tyrant of the city of Philadelphia.

2. But Antiochus being very uneasy at the miseries that

Simon had brought upon him, he invaded Judea in the fourth

year of his reign, and the first year of the principality of Hyr­

canus, in f the hundred and sixty second Olympiad. And when

he had burnt the country, he shut up Hyrcanus in the city,

which he encompassed round with seveii encampments, but did

nothing at the first, because of the strength of the walls, and

because of the valour of the besieged; although they were once

in want of water, which yet they were delivered from by a large

shower of rain, which fell at the \ setting of the Pleiades. How­

ever, about the north part of the wall, where it happened the

city was upon a level with the outward ground, the king raised

a hundred towers of three stories high, and placed bodies of

soldiers upon them, and as he made his attacks every day, he

cut a double ditch, deep and broad, and confined the inhabitants

within it as within a wall; but the besieged contrived to make

frequent sallies out, and if the enemy were not any where upon

their guard, they fell upon them, and did them a great deal of

mischief, and if they perceived them, they then retired into the city

with ease. But because Hyrcanus discerned the inconvenience

of so great a number of men in the city, while the provisions

were the sooner spent by them, and yet, as is natural to suppose

* Hence we learn, that in the days of this excellent high priest, John Hyrcanus,  
the observation of the Sabbatic year, as Josephus supposed, required a rest
from war

as did that of the weekly Sabbath from work: I mean this, unless in the case
of ne­

cessity, when the Jews were attacked by their enemies, in which case indeed,
and in

which alone, they then allowed defensive fighting to be lawful even on the
Sabbath

day, as we see in several places of Josephus, Antiq. B. XII. chap. vi. § 2. B.
XIII.

chap. I. § 2. vol. II. Of the War, B. I. chap. vii. § 2. vol. III. But then it
must

be noted, that this rest from war no way appears in the first book of
Maccabees,

chap. xvi. but the direct contrary; though indeed the Jews, in the days of
Antiochus

Epiphanes, did not venture upon fighting on the Sabbath day, even in the
defence

of their own lives, till the Asainonians or Maccabees decreed so to do, 1 Mac.
ii-

32—41. Antiq. B XII. chap. vii. sec. 2. .

f Josephus' copies, both Greek and Latin, have here a gross mistake, when they

say, that this first year of John Hyrcanus, which we have just now seen to
have been

a Sabbatic year, was in the 162d Olympiad, whereas it was for certain the
second year

of the 161st. See the like before, B. XII. chap. vi. sect. 6.

J This heliacal setting of the Pleiades, or seven stars, was, in the days of
Hyrcanus

and Josephus, early in the spring, about February, the time of the latter rain
in

Judea, and this so far as I remember, is the only astronomical character of
time, be­

sides one eclipse of the moon in the reign of Herod, that we meet with in all
Jose­

phus, the Jews being little accustomed to astronomical observations, any
farther than

far the uses of their kalendar, and utterly forbidden those astrological uses
which the

heathens commonly made of them.

