Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 145

more by the diligence and generosity of the king, who not only

supplied the artificers abundantly, and with great generosity,

with what they wanted, but he forbade public audiences for the

time, and came and stood by the workmen, and saw the whole

operation. And this was the cause why the workmen were so

accurate in their performance, because they had regard to the

king, and to his great concern about the vessels, and so the more

indefatigably kept close to the work.

11. And these were what gifts were sent by Ptolemy to Je­

rusalem, and dedicated to God there. But when Eleazar the

high priest had devoted them to God, and had paid due respect

to those that brought them, and had given them presents to be

carried to the king, he dismissed them. And when they were

come to Alexandria, and Ptolemy heard that they were come, and

that the seventy elders, were come also, he presently sent for An­

dreas and Aristeus, his ambassadors, who came to him, and de­

livered him the epistle which they had brought him from the high

priest, and made answer to all the questions he put to them by

word of mouth. He then made haste to meet the elders that

came from Jerusalem, for the interpretation of the laws; and he

gave command, that every body, who came on occasions, should

be sent away, which was a thing surprising, and what he did not

use to do, for those that there were drawn thither upon such oc­

casions used to come to him on the fifth day, but ambassadors at

the month's end. But when he had sent those away, he waited for

these that were sent by Eleazar; but as the old men came in with

the presents, which the high priest had given them to bring to

the king, and with the membranes, upon which they had their

laws written * in golden letters, he put questions to them con­

cerning those books; and when they had taken off the covers

wherein they were wrapt up, they showed him the membranes.

So the king stood admiring the thinness of those membranes,

and the exactness of the junctures; which could not be perceiv­

ed, (so exactly were they connected one with another); and this

he did for a considerable time. He then said that he returned

them thanks for coming to him, and still greater thanks to him

that sent them ; and, above all, to that God whose laws they ap­

peared to be. Then did the elders, and those that were present

with them, cry out with one voice, and wished all happiness

to the king. Upon which he fell into tears by the violence of

the pleasure he had, it being natural to men to afibrd the same

indications in great joy, that they do under sorrows. And when .

he had bid them deliver the books to those that were appointed

* The Talmudists say, that it is not lawful to write the law in letters of gold,  
contrary to > this certain and very ancient example. See Hudson's and Reland's

notes here.

