OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 251

their arras. Yet the prudence of the emperor in- chap.

duced him to secure a remote frontier, perpetually XIX,

exposed to the inroads of the hostile Arabs. A de­

tachment of four thousand men was left at Circesium,

which completed, to the number of ten thousand,

the regular garrison of that important fortress *.

From the moment that the Romans entered the His march

enemy's country, the country of an active and artful desertof

enemy, the order of march was disposed in three

columns. The strength of the infantry, and con­

sequently of the whole army, was placed in the

centre, under the peculiar command of their master-

general Victor. On the right, the brave Nevitta

led a column of several legions along the banks of

the Euphrates, and almost always in sight of the

fleet. The left flank of the army was protected by

the column of cavalry. Hormisdas and Arinthauis

were appointed generals of the horse; and the sin­

gular adventures of Hormisdas are not undeserving

of our notice. He was a Persian prince, of the royal

race of the Sassanides, who, in the troubles of the

minority of Sapor, had escaped from prison to the

hospitable court of the great Constantine. Hor­

misdas at first excited the compassion, and at length

acquired the esteem, of his new masters; his valour

and fidelity raised him to the military honours of the

Roman service; and, though' a Christian, he might

indulge the secret satisfaction of convincing his un­

grateful country, that an oppressed subject may prove

the most dangerous enemy. Such was the dispo­

sition of the three principal columns. The front and

flanks of the army were covered by Lucillianus with

a flying detachment of fifteen hundred light-armed

soldiers, whose active vigilance observed the most

* The enterprise and armament of Julian are described by himself (Epist.  
xxvii.). Ammianus Marcellinus (xxiii. 3, 4, 5.), Libanius (Orat. Parent. c.
108,

109. p. 332. 333.), Zosimus (1. iii. p. 160, 161, 162.), Sozoqien (1. vi. c
1.),

and John Malela (torn. ii. p. 170,

