THE DECLINE AND FALL

desperate extremities; and the fortune of the state

seemed to depend on the prudence, as well as the in­

tegrity, of the generals of Valens. At this important

crisis, the military government of Thrace was exer­

cised by Lupicinus and Maximus, in whose venal

minds the slightest hope of private emolument out­

weighed every consideration of public advantage, and

whose guilt was only alleviated by their incapacity of

discerning the pernicious effects of their rash and cri­

minal administration. Instead of obeying the orders

of their sovereign, and satisfying, with decent libe­

rality, the demands of the Goths, they levied an un­

generous and oppressive tax on the wants of the hun­

gry Barbarians. The vilest food was sold at an ex­

travagant price; and, in the room of wholesome and

substantial provisions, the markets were filled with

the flesh of dogs, and of unclean animals, who had

died of disease. To obtain the valuable acquisition

of a pound of bread, the Goths resigned the possession

of an expensive, though serviceable, slave; and a

small quantity of meat was greedily purchased with

ten pounds of a precious, but useless, metal*. When

their property was exhausted, they continued this ne­

cessary traffic by the sale of their sons and daughters;

and, notwithstanding the love of freedom which ani­

mated every Gothic breast, they submitted to the

humiliating maxim, that it was better for their chil­

dren to be maintained in a servile , condition, than to

perish in a state of wretched and helpless independ­

ence. The most lively resentment is excited by the

tyranny of pretended benefactors, who sternly exact

the debt of gratitude which they have cancelled by

subsequent injuries: a spirit of discontent insensibly

* Decern librus; the word silver must be understood. Jomandes betrays the  
passions and prejudices of a Goth. The servile Greeks, Eunapius and Zosimus,

disguise the Roman oppression, and execrate the perfidy of the Barbarians.

Ammianus, a patriot historian,'slightly, and reluctantly, touches on the
odious

subject. Jerom, who wrote almost on the spot, is fair, though concise. Per

avaritiam Maximi ducis, ad rebellionem fame coacti sunt (in Chion.).

