OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 123

devoutly ascribes his miraculous deliverance to the chap.

protection of the Gods, who had exempted his inno- XVL

cence from the sentence of destruction pronounced

by their justice against the impious house of Con-

stantine *. As the most effectual instrument of their

providence, he gratefully acknowledges the steady

and generous friendship of the empress Eusebiat, a

woman of beauty and merit, who, by the ascendant

which she had gained over the mind of her husband,

counterbalanced, in some measure, the powerful con­

spiracy of the eunuchs. By the intercession of his

patroness, Julian was admitted into the Imperial pre­

sence; he pleaded his cause with a decent freedom,

he was heard with favour; and, notwithstanding the

efforts of his enemies, who urged the danger of sparing

an avenger of the blood of Gallus, the milder senti­

ment of Eusebia prevailed in the council. But the

effects of a second interview were dreaded by the

eunuchs; and Julian was advised to withdraw for a

while into the neighbourhood of Milan, till the em­

peror thought proper to assign the city of Athens for He is sent

the place of his honourable exile. As he had dis- a.^X 355.

covered from his earliest youth a propensity, orMa^

rather passion, for the language, the manners, the

learning, and the religion of the Greeks, he obeyed

with pleasure an order so agreeable to his wishes.

Far from the tumult of arms and the treachery of

courts, he spent six months amidst the groves of the

academy, in a free intercourse with the philosophers

of the age, who studied to cultivate the genius, to

encourage the vanity, and to inflame the devotion of

* Julian has worked the crimes and misfortunes of the family of,Constantino  
into an allegorical fable, which is happily conceived and agreeably related.
It

forms the conclusion of the seventh Oration, from whence it has been detached

and translated by the Abbe de la Bleterie. Vie de Jovien, torn. ii. p.
385—408.

f She was a native of Thessalonica in Macedonia, of a noble family, and the

daughter as well as sister of consuls. Her marriage with the emperor may be

placed in the year 352. In a divided age the historians of all parties agree
in her

praises. See their testimonies collected by TUlemont, Hist. des Empereurs,
torn.

iv. p. 750—754.

