388 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. wounded, as it was supposed, with an arrow, sought

XXI' protection among the Lancearii and the Mattiarii,

who still maintained their ground with some appear­

ance of order and firmness. His faithful generals,

Trajan and Victor, who perceived his danger, loudly

exclaimed, that all was lost, unless the person of the

emperor could be saved. Some troops, animated by

their exhortation, advanced to his relief: they found

only a bloody spot, covered with a heap of broken

arms and mangled bodies, without being able to dis­

cover their unfortunate prince, either among the

living or the dead. Their search could not indeed

be successful, if there is any truth in the circumstances

with which some historians have related the death of

Death of the emperor. By the care of his attendants, Valens

ror VafcnV. was removed from tne field of battle to a neighbour­

ing cottage, where they attempted to dress his wound,

and to provide for his future safety. But this hum­

ble retreat was instantly surrounded by the enemy;

they tried to force the door; they were provoked by

a discharge of arrows from the roof, till at length,

impatient of delay, they set fire to a pile of dry fa­

gots, and consumed the cottage with the Roman em­

peror and his train. Valens perished in the flames;

and a youth, who dropt from the window, alone

escaped, to attest the melancholy tale, and to inform

the Goths of the inestimable prize which they had

lost by their own rashness. A great number of brave

and distinguished officers perished in the battle of

Hadrianople, which equalled, in the actual loss, and

far surpassed, in the fatal consequences, the misfor­

tune which Rome had formerly sustained in the fields

of Cannae*. Two master-generals of the cavalry and

infantry, two great officers of the palace, and thirty-

* Nec ulla, annalibus, prater Cannensem pugnam ita ad internecionem res  
legitur gesta. Ammian. xxxt. 13. According to the grave Polybius, no more

than 370 horse, and 3,000 foot, escaped from the field of Cannae: 10,000 were

made prisoners; and the number of the slain amounted to 5,630 horse, and

