218 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. But the Christians entertained a natural and pious

XVIIL expectation, that, in this memorable contest, the ho­

nour of religion would be vindicated by some signal

miracle. An earthquake, a whirlwind, and a fiery

eruption, which overturned and scattered the new

foundations of the temple, are attested, with some

variations, by contemporaryand respectable evidence*.

This public event is described by Ambrose t, bishop

of Milan, in an epistle to the emperor Theodosius,

which must provoke the severe animadversion of the

Jews; by the eloquent Chrysostom J, who might

appeal to the memory of the elder part of his con­

gregation at Antioch; and by Gregory Nazienzen §,

perhaps by who published his account of the miracle before the

natand expiration of the same year. The last of these

eTent" writers has boldly declared, that this preternatural

event was not disputed by the infidels; and his asser­

tion, strange as it may seem, is confirmed by the

unexceptionable testimony of Ammianus Marcelli-

nus||. The philosophic soldier, who loved the vir­

tues, without adopting the prejudices of his master,

has recorded, in his judicious and candid history of

his own times, the extraordinary obstacles which in­

terrupted the restoration of the temple of Jerusalem.

"Whilst Alypius, assisted by the governor of the

have understood, from former examples, that the execution of such a work would

have demanded many years.

* The subsequent witnesses, Socrates, Sozomen, Theodoret, Fhilostorgius,  
&c add contradictions, rather than authority. Compare the objections of Bas-

nage (Hist. des Juifs, torn. vrh.p. 157—168.) with Warburton's answers
(Julian,

p. 174—258.).

f Ambros. torn. ii. epist. xl. p. 946. edit. Benedictin.

J Chrysostom, torn. i. p. 580, advers. Judajos et Gentes, torn. ii. p. 574. de

Sto. Babyla, edit. Montfaucon.

§ Greg. Nazianzen, Orat. iv. p. 110—113. To Se sv irip&iriv ir«ir; Octv/xx,

|| Ammian. xxiii. 1. Cum itaque rei fortiter instaret Alypius, juvaretque

provincia; rector, metuendi globi flammarum prope fundamenta crebris
a^sultibus

erumpentes fecere locum exustis aliquoties operantibus inaccessum: hocque modo

elemento destinatius repellente, cessavit inceptum. Warburton labours (p. 60—

90.) to extort a confession of the miracle from the mouths of Julian and Liba,

nius, and to employ the evidence of a rabbi, who lived in the fifteenth
century.

Such witnesses can only be received by a very favourable judge.

