OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 125

the first time, Constantius sincerely acknowledged, chap.

that his single strength was unequal to such an extent XVL

of care and of dominion. Insensible to the voice of

flattery, which assured him that his all-powerful

virtue, and celestial fortune, would still continue to

triumph over every obstacle, he listened with com­

placency to the advice of Eusebia, which gratified

his indolence, without offending his suspicious pride.

As she perceived that the remembrance of Gallus

dwelt on the emperor's mind, she artfully turned his

attention to the opposite characters of the two bro­

thers, which from their infancy had been compared

to those of Domitian and of Titus. She accustomed

her husband to consider Julian as a youth of a mild

unambitious disposition, whose allegiance and gra­

titude might be secured by the gift of the purple,

and who was qualified to fill, with honour, a sub­

ordinate station, without aspiring to dispute the com­

mands, or to shade the glories, of his sovereign and

benefactor. After an obstinate, though secret strug­

gle, the opposition of the favourite eunuchs submitted

to the ascendancy of the empress; and it was resolved

that Julian, after celebrating his nuptials with He­

lena, sister of Constantius, should be appointed, with

the title of Caesar, to reign over the countries beyond

the Alps *.

Although the order which recalled him to court

was probably accompanied by some intimation of his

approaching greatness, he appeals to the people of

Athens to witness his tears of undissembled sorrow,

when he was reluctantly torn away from his beloved

retirement t. He trembled for his life, for his fame,

and even for his virtue; and his sole confidence was

derived from the persuasion, that Minerva inspired

* Ammianus, 1. xv. c. 8. Zosimus, 1. iii. p. 137, 138.

f Julian. ad S. P. Q. A. p. 375, 276. Libanius, Orat. x. p. 268. Julian

did not yield till the Gods had signified their will by repeated visions and
omens.

His piety hen forbade him to resist.

