190 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. greatest part of the day, as idle spectators, and as a

XVIL part of the splendid spectacle, till the ordinary round

of twenty-four races was completely finished. On

solemn festivals, Julian, who felt and professed an

unfashionable dislike to these frivolous amusements,

condescended to appear in the Circus; and after

bestowing a careless glance on five or six of the races,

he hastily withdrew, with the impatience of a philo­

sopher, who considered every moment as lost, that

was not devoted to the advantage of the public, or

the improvement of his own mind. By this avarice

of time, he seemed to protract the short duration of

his reign; and if the dates were less securely ascer­

tained, we should refuse to believe, that only six-

December, teen months elapsed between the death of Constan-

Marehf61 tius and the departure of his successor for the Persian

a. D. 363. war> Thg actions 0f Julian can only be preserved

by the care of the historian; but the portion of his

voluminous writings, which is still extant, remains

as a monument of the application, as well as of the

genius, of the emperor. The Misopogon, the Caesars,

several of his orations, and his elaborate work against

the Christian religion, were composed in the long

nights of the two winters, the former of which he

passed at Constantinople, and the latter at Antioch.

Reforma- The reformation of the Imperial court was one of

palace the first and most necessary acts of the government of

Julian. Soon after his entrance into the palace of Con­

stantinople, he had occasion for the service of a barber.

An officer, magnificently dressed, immediately pre­

sented himself. "It is a barber," exclaimed the

prince with affected surprise, "that I want, and not

"a receiver-general of the finances." He questioned

the man concerning the profits of his employment;

and was informed, that besides a large salary, and

some valuable perquisites', he enjoyed a daily allow­

ance for twenty servants, and as many horses. A

