480 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. prohibit the exportation of corn, the tranquillity, and

xxm, perhaps the safety, of the capital, would be threatened

by the hungry rage of a turbulent multitude. The

prudence of Stilicho conceived, and executed^ with足

out delay, the most effectual measure for the relief

of the Roman people. A large and seasonable supply

of corn, collected in the inland provinces of Gaul,

was embarked on the rapid stream of the Rhone, and

transported, by an easy navigation, from the Rhone

to the Tyber. During the whole term of the African

war, the granaries of Rome were continually filled,

her dignity was vindicated from the humiliating de足

pendence, and the minds of an immense people were

quieted by the calm confidence of peace and plenty.

The am. The cause of Rome, and the conduct of the African

A^iTm war, were intrusted, by Stilicho, to a general active

and ardent to avenge his private injuries on the head

of the tyrant. The spirit of discord, which prevailed

in the house of Nabal, had excited a deadly quarrel

between two of his sons, Gildo and Mascezel. The

usurper pursued, with implacable rage, the life of

his younger brother, whose courage and abilities he

feared; and Mascezel, oppressed by superior power,

took refuge in the court of Milan; where he soon

received the cruel intelligence, that his two innocent

and helpless children had been murdered by their in足

human uncle. The affliction of the father was sus足

pended only by the desire of revenge. The vigilant

Stilicho already prepared to collect the naval and

military forces of the Western empire; and he had

resolved, if the tyrant should be able to wage an equal

and doubtful war, to march against him in person. -

But as Italy required his presence, and as it might

be dangerous to weaken the defence of the frontier,

he judged it more advisable that Mascezel should

attempt this arduous adventure, at the head of a

chosen body of Gallic veterans, who had lately sorved

