OF THE ROMAN EMPIUE.

were suspended by lust or avarice, was satiated by an chap.

undistinguishing massacre. The governor, who had XIX"

yielded on a promise of mercy, was burnt alive, a few

days afterwards, on a charge of having uttered some

disrespectful words against the honour of prince Hor-

misdas. The fortifications were razed to the ground;

and not a vestige was left, that the city of Maoga-

malcha had ever existed. The neighbourhood of the

capital of Persia was adorned with three stately pa­

laces, laboriously enriched with every production that

could gratify the luxury and pride of an eastern mo­

narch. The pleasant situation of the gardens along

the banks of the Tigris was improved, according to

the Persian taste, by the symmetry of flowers, foun­

tains, and shady walks; and spacious parks were en­

closed for the reception of the bears, lions, and wild

boars, which were maintained at a considerable ex­

pense for the pleasure of the royal chase. The park

walls were broke down, the savage game was aban­

doned to the darts of the soldiers, and the palaces of

Sapor were reduced to ashes, by the command of the

Roman emperor. Julian, on this occasion, showed

himself ignorant, or careless, of the laws of civility,

which the prudence and refinement of polished ages

have established between hostile princes. Yet these

wanton ravages need not excite in our breasts any

vehement emotions of pity or resentment. A simple,

naked statue, finished by the hand of a Grecian artist,

is of more genuine value than all these rude and costly

monuments of Barbaric labour; and if we are more

deeply affected by the ruin of a palace than by the

conflagration of a cottage, our humanity must have

formed a very erroneous estimate of the miseries of

human life #.

* The operations of the Assyrian war are circumstantially related by Ammia-  
ntis (xxiv. 2, 3, 4, 5), Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 1J2—123, p. 335—347), Zo-

simus (l . iii. p. 168—180), and Gregory Nazianzen (Orat. iv. p. 113,144).

S 2

