OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. • 413

cised the youth of Gratian, he had applied himself, chap.

with singular inclination and success, to manage the xxiI'

horse, to draw the bow, and to dart the javelin;

and these qualifications, which might be useful to a

soldier, were prostituted to the viler purposes of

hunting. Large parks were enclosed for the Imperial

pleasures, and plentifully stocked with every species

of wild beasts; and Gratian neglected the duties,

and even the dignity, of his rank, to consume whole

days in the vain display of his dexterity and boldness

in the chase. The pride and wish of the Roman

emperor to excel in an art, in which he might be sur­

passed by the meanest of his slaves, reminded the

numerous spectators of the examples of Nero and

Commodus: but the chaste and temperate Gratian

was a stranger to their monstrous vices; and his

hands were stained only with the blood of animals.

The behaviour of Gratian, which degraded his cha- Discontent

racter in the eyes of mankind, could not have dis- Roman

turbed the security of his r,eign, if the army had not ^^'383.

been provoked to resent their peculiar injuries. As

long as the young emperor was guided by the instruc­

tions of his masters, he professed himself the friend

and pupil of the soldiers; many of his hours were

spent in the familiar conversation of the camp; and the

health, the comforts, the rewards, the honours, of his

faithful troops, appeared to be the object of his at­

tentive concern. But after Gratian more freely in­

dulged his prevailing taste for hunting and shooting,

he naturally connected himself with the most dex­

terous ministers of his favourite amusement. A

body of the Alani was received into the military and

domestic service of the palace; and the admirable

skill, which they were accustomed to display in the

unbounded plains of Scythia, was exercised, on a

more narrow theatre, in the parks and inclosures of

Gaul. Gratian admired the talents and customs of

