THE DECLINE AND FALL

demy, and the society of Athens; but he was con­

strained, at first by the will, and afterwards by the

injustice, of Constantius, to expose his person and

fame to the dangers of Imperial greatness; and to

make himself accountable to the world, and to pos­

terity, for the happiness of millions *. Julian re-

pollected with terror the observation of his master

Plato, that the government of our flocks and herds is

always committed to beings of a superior species; and

that the conduct of nations requires and deserves the

celestial powers of the Gods or of the Genii. From

this principle he justly concluded, that the man who

presumes to reign should aspire to the perfection

of the divine nature; that he should purify his soul

from her mortal and terrestrial part; that he should

extinguish his appetites, enlighten his understanding,

regulate his passions, and subdue the wild beast,

which, according to the lively metaphor of Aristotle,

seldom fails to ascend the throne of a despot. The

throne of Julian, which the death of Constantius

fixed on an independent basis, was the seat of reason,

of virtue, and perhaps of vanity. He despised the

honours, renounced the pleasures, and discharged

with incessant diligence the duties, of his exalted

station; and there were few among his subjects who

would have consented to relieve him from the weight

of the diadem, had they been obliged to submit their

time and their actions to the rigorous laws which

their philosophic emperor imposed on himself., One

of his most intimate friends f, who had often shared

the frugal simplicity of his table, has remarked, that

his light and sparing diet (which was usually of the

• Julian himself (p. 252—267.) has expressed these philosophical ideas with

much eloquence, and some affectation, in a very elaborate epistle to
Themistius.

The Abbe de la Bleterie (torn. ii. p. 146 193.), who has given an elegant

translation, is inclined to believe that it was the celebrated Themistius,
whose

orations are still extant.

f Libanius (Orat. Parentalis, c. Ixxxiv. lxxxv. p. 310, 311, 312.) has given

this interesting detail of the private life of Julian. He himself (in
Misopogon.

p. 350.) mentions his vegetable diet, and upbraids the gross and sensual appe­

tite of die people of Antioch.

