OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 129

the rebellion of which he was so unjustly accused. chap.

He assumed the purple at his head-quarters of XV1.

Cologne, and his active powers appeared to menace

Italy with an invasion, and Milan with a siege. In

this emergency, Ursicinus, a general of equal rank,

regained, by an act of treachery, the favour which

he had lost by his eminent services in the East.

Exasperated, as he might speciously allege, by in­

juries of a similar nature, he hastened with a few

followers to join the standard, and to betray the

confidence, of his too credulous friend. After a

reign of only twenty-eight days, Sylvanus was

assassinated: the soldiers who, without any criminal

intention, had blindly followed the example of their

leader, immediately returned to their allegiance;

and the flatterers of Constantius celebrated the wis­

dom and felicity of the monarch who had extin­

guished a civil war without the hazard of a battle *.

The protection of the Rhaetian frontier, and the Constantius

persecution of the Catholic church, detained Con- a'!d. 357.e"

stantius in Italy above eighteen months after the de-APri128'

parture of Julian. Before the emperor returned

into the East, he indulged his pride and curiosity in

a visit to the ancient capital t. He proceeded from

Milan to Rome along the iEmilian and Flaminian

ways; and as soon as he approached within forty

miles of the city, the march of a prince who had

never vanquished a foreign enemy assumed the ap­

pearance of a triumphal procession. His splendid

train was composed of all the ministers of luxury;

but in a time of profound peace, he was encom­

passed by the glittering arms of the numerous squa­

drons of his guards and cuirassiers. Their stream-

* Ammianus (xv. 5.) was perfectly well informed of the conduct and fate of  
Sylvanus. He himself was one of the few followers who attended Ursicinus in

his dangerous enterprise.

f For the particulars of the visit of Constantius to Rome, see Ammianus,

1. xvi. c. 10.

VOL. IU K

