THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the verdure of the earth, and the temperature of the

XVIH" air; the senses were gratified with harmonious sounds

and aromatic odours; and the peaceful grove was

consecrated to health and joy, to luxury and love.

The soldier and the philosopher wisely avoided the

temptation of this sensual paradise; where pleasure,

assuming the character of religion, imperceptibly

dissolved the firmness of manly virtue. But the

groves of Daphne continued for many ages to enjoy

the veneration of natives and strangers; the privileges

of the holy ground were enlarged by the munificence

of succeeding emperors; and every generation added

new ornaments to the splendour of the temple.

Neglect and When Julian, on the day of the annual festival,

profanation J .

of Daphne. hastened to adore the Apollo of Daphne, his devotion

was raised to the highest pitch of eagerness and im­

patience. His lively imagination anticipated the

grateful pomp of victims, of libations, and of incense;

a long procession of youths and virgins, clothed in

white robes, the symbol of their innocence; and the

tumultuous concourse of an innumerable people. But

the zeal of Antioch was diverted, since the reign of

Christianity, into a different channel. Instead of

hecatombs of fat oxen sacrificed by the tribes of a

wealthy city, to their tutelar deity, the emperor com­

plains that he found only a single goose, provided at

the expense of a priest, the pale and solitary inha­

bitant of this decayed temple*. The altar was de­

serted, the oracle had been reduced to silence, and

the holy ground was profaned by the introduction of

Christian and funeral rites. After Babylas (a bishop

of Antioch, who died in prison in the persecution of

Decius) had rested near a century in his grave, his

body, by the order of the Caesar Gallus, was trans­

ported into the midst of the grove of Daphne. A

• Julian (Misopogon, p. 361,362.) discovers his own character with that

naivete, that unconscious simplicity. which always constitutes genuine humour.

