THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. certain intelligence that the emperor of the West had

xx' fixed the choice of a general, or that a fleet of trans­

ports was collected at the mouth of the Rhone, he

Theodosius was suddenly informed that the great Theodosius,

recovers

Africa, with a small band of veterans, had landed near Igil-

a.d. 373. gilisj or Gigeri, on the African coast; and the timid

usurper sank under the ascendant of virtue and mili­

tary genius. Though Firmus possessed arms and

treasures, his despair of victory immediately reduced

him to the use of those arts which, in the same coun­

try, and in a similar situation, had formerly been

practised by the crafty Jugurtha. He attempted to

deceive, by an. apparent submission, the vigilance of

the Roman general ; to seduce the fidelity of his troops;

and to protract the duration of the war, by succes­

sively engaging the independent tribes of Africa to

espouse his quarrel, or to protect his flight. Theo­

dosius imitated the example, and obtained the success,

of his predecessor Metellus. When Firmus, in the

character of a suppliant, accused his own rashness,

and humbly solicited the clemency of the emperor,

the lieutenant of Valentinian received and dismissed

him with a friendly embrace; but he diligently re­

quired the useful and substantial pledges of a sincere

repentance; nor could he be persuaded, by the as­

surances of peace, to suspend, for an instant, the

operations of an active war. A dark conspiracy was

detected by the penetration of Theodosius; and he

satisfied, without much reluctance, the public indig­

nation, which he had secretly excited. Several of

the guilty accomplices of Firmus were abandoned,

according to ancient custom, to the tumult of a mili­

tary execution; many more, by the amputation of

both their hands, continued to exhibit an instructive

spectacle of horror; the hatred of the rebels was

accompanied with fear; and the fear of the Roman

soldiers was mingled with respectful admiration.

