298 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the quantity of the wine, or the quality of the mush-

xx' rooms, which he had swallowed in the evening.—

According to others, he was suffocated in his sleep

by the vapour of charcoal; which extracted from the

walls of the apartment the unwholesome moisture of

the fresh plaster *. But the want of a regular in­

quiry into the death of a prince, whose reign and

person were soon forgotten, appears to have been the

only circumstance which countenanced the malicious

whispers of poison and domestic guilt. The body of

Jovian was sent to Constantinople, to be interred with

his predecessors; and the sad procession was met on

the road by his wife Charito, the daughter of count

Lucillian; who still wept the recent death of her

father, and was hastening to dry her tears in the em­

braces of an Imperial husband. Her disappointment

and grief were embittered by the anxiety of maternal

tenderness. Six weeks before the death of Jovian,

his infant son had been placed in the curule chair,

adorned with the title of Nobilissimus, and the vain

ensigns of the consulship. Unconscious of his fortune,

the royal youth, who, from his grandfather, assumed

the name of Varronian, was reminded only by the

jealousy of the government, that he was the son of an

emperor. Sixteen years afterwards he was still alive,

but he had already been deprived of an eye; and his

afflicted mother expected, every hour, that the inno­

cent victim would be torn from her arms, to appease

with his blood the suspicions of the reigning prince.

Vacancy After the death of Jovian, the throne of the Ro-

throne, man world remained ten days without a master.—

f& 17— Ministers and generals still continued to meet

in council; to exercise their respective functions; to

* See Ammianus (xxv. 10.), Eutropius (x. 18.), who might likewise be  
present; Jerom (torn. i. p. 20. ad Heliodorum), Orosius (vii. 31.), Sozomen

(1. vi. c. 6.), Zosimus (1. iii. p. 197, 198.), and Zonaras (torn. ii. 1.
xiii. p.

28, 29.). We cannot expect a perfect agreement, and we shall not discuss
minute

differences.

