THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. was beheaded in prison like the vilest malefactor*.

lVL Those who are inclined to palliate the cruelties of

Constantius, assert that he soon relented, and en­

deavoured to recall the bloody mandate; but that the

second messenger intrusted with the reprieve was

detained by the eunuchs, who dreaded the unforgiving

temper of Gallus, and were desirous of reuniting to

their empire the wealthy provinces of the East.

danger Besides the reigning emperor, Julian alone sur-

escape . ° ° *

uiian. vived, of all the numerous posterity of Constantius

Chlorus. The misfortune of his royal birth involved

him in the disgrace of Gallus. From his retirement

in the happy country of Ionia, he was conveyed under

a strong guard to the court of Milan; where he lan­

guished above seven months, in the continual appre­

hension of suffering the same ignominious death,

which was daily inflicted, almost before his eyes, on

the friends and adherents of his persecuted family.

His looks, his gestures, his silence, were scrutinized

with malignant curiosity, and he was perpetually

assaulted by enemies, whom he had never offended,

and by arts to which he was a stranger t. But in the

school of adversity, Julian insensibly acquired the

virtues of iirmness and discretion. He defended his

honour, as well as his life, against the ensnaring sub­

tleties of the eunuchs, who endeavoured to extort

some declaration of his sentiments; and whilst he

cautiously suppressed his grief and resentment, he

nobly disdained to flatter the tyrant, by any seeming

approbation of his brother's murder. Julian most

* See the complete narrative of the journey and death of Gallus in Ammianus,  
l . 14. c 11. Julian cornplains that his brother was put to death without a
trial j

attempts to justify, or at least to excuse, the cruel revenge which he had
inflicted

on his enemies; but seems at last to acknowledge that he might justly have
been

deprived of the purple.

f See Ammianus Marcellin, L xv. c. i. 3. 8. Julian himself, in his epistle to

the Athenians, draws a very lively and just picture of his own danger, and
oAiis

sentiments. He shows, however, a tendency to exaggerate his sufferings, by in­

sinuating, though in obscure terms, that they lasted above a year; a period
which

cannot be reconciled with the truth of Chronology.

