OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 223

care of his reputation, which was exposed to the eyes chap.

of the universe, restrained the philosophic monarch xvm,

from violating the laws of justice and toleration,,

which he himself had so recently established. But

the provincial ministers of his authority were placed

in a less conspicuous station. In the exercise of

arbitrary power, they consulted the wishes, rather

than the commands, of their sovereign; and ventured

to exercise a secret and vexatious tyranny against the

sectaries, on whom they were not permitted to confer

the honours of martyrdom. The emperor, who dis­

sembled as long as possible his knowledge of the in­

justice that was exercised in his name, expressed his

real sense of the conduct of his officers, by gentle

reproofs and substantial rewards.

The most effectual instrument of oppression, with They are

l,ii i i i i it i i condemned

which they were armed, was the law that obliged the to restore

Christians to make full and ample satisfaction for the tempief?"

temples which they had destroyed under the pre­

ceding reign. The consecrated lands, which had in­

creased the patrimony of the sovereign or of the

clergy, were clearly denned, and easily restored. But

on these lands, and on the ruins of Pagan superstition,

the Christians had frequently erected their own reli­

gious edifices: and as it was necessary to remove the

church before the temple could be rebuilt, the justice

and piety of the emperor were applauded by one party,

while the other deplored and execrated his sacrilegi­

ous violence*. After the ground was cleared, the

restitution of those stately structures, which had been

levelled with the dust; and of the precious orna­

ments, which had been converted to Christian uses;

swelled into a very large account of damages and debt.

The authors of the injury had neither the ability nor

* If we cornpare the gentle language of Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 60. p. 286.)  
with the passionate exclamations of Gregory (Orat. iii. p. 86, 87.), we may
find it

difficult to persuade ourselves, that the two orators are really describing
the same

events.

