OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 11

extent may seem not unworthy of an Imperial re- chap.

sidence. Yet Constantinople must yield to Babylon XIv'

and Thebes*, to ancient Rome, to London, and even

to Paris t.

The master of the Roman world, who aspired to Progress of

erect an eternal monument of the glories of his reign,4116 work'

could employ in the prosecution of that great work

the wealth, the labour, and all that yet remained of

the genius of obedient millions. Some estimate may

be formed of the expense bestowed with Imperial

liberality on the foundation of Constantinople, by the

allowance of about two millions five hundred thou­

sand pounds for the construction of the walls, the

porticoes, and the aqueducts. The forests that over­

shadowed the shores of the Euxine, and the cele­

brated quarries of white marble in the little island of

Proconnesus, supplied an inexhaustible stock of ma­

terials, ready to be conveyed, by the convenience of a

short water carriage, to the harbour of Byzantium.

A multitude of labourers and artificers urged the

conclusion of the work with incessant toil: but the

impatience of Constantine soon discovered, that in

the decline of the arts, the skill as well as numbers of

his architects bore a very unequal proportion to the

greatness of his designs. The magistrates of the

most distant provinces were therefore directed to in­

stitute schools, to appoint professors, and by the hopes

of rewards and privileges, to engage in the study and

practice of architecture a sufficient number of in­

genious youths, who had received a liberal education.

The buildings of the new city were executed by such

artificers as the reign of Constantine could afford;

* When the ancient texts, which describe the size of Babylon and Thebes,  
are settled, the exaggerations reduced, and the measures ascertained, we find
that

those famous cities filled the great but not incredible circumference of about

twenty five or thirty miles. Compare d'Anville, Mem. de VAcademic torn.

xxviii. p. 235, with his Description de l'Egypte, p. 201, 202.

f If we divide Constantinople and Paris into equal squares of 60 French

toises, the former contains B50, and the latter 1160 of those divisions.

