270 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. of faithful followers, he deserted to the Imperial camp;

'exposed, in a specious tale, the injuries which he

had sustained; exaggerated the cruelty of Sapor, the

discontent of the people, and the weakness of the

monarchy; and confidently offered himself as the

hostage and guide of the Roman march. The most

rational grounds of suspicion were urged, without

effect, by the wisdom and experience of Hormisdas;

and the credulous Julian, receiving the traitor into

his bosom, was persuaded to issue an hasty order,

which, in the opinion of mankind, appeared to ar足

raign his prudence, and to endanger his safety. He

destroyed, in a single hour, the whole navy, which

had been transported above five hundred miles, at so

great an expense of toil, of treasure, and of blood.

Twelve, or, at the most, twenty-two, small vessels

were saved, to accompany, on carriages, the march of

the army, and to form occasional bridges for the

passage of the rivers. A supply of twenty days pro足

visions was reserved for the use of the soldiers; and

the rest of the magazines, with a fleet of eleven hun足

dred vessels, which rode at anchor in the Tigris, were

abandoned to the flames, by the absolute command

of the emperor. Their authority, of less weight,

perhaps, in a military question, is confirmed by the

cool judgment of an experienced soldier, who was

himself spectator of the conflagration, and who could

not disapprove the reluctant murmurs of the troops *.

Yet there are not wanting some specious, and per足

haps solid, reasons, which might justify the resolution

of Julian. The navigation of the Euphrates never

ascended above Babylon, nor that of the Tigris above

* See Ammianus (xxiv. 7.). Libanius (Orat. Parentalis, c. 132, 133. p.  
356, 3ft7,)i Zosimus (1. iii p. 183.), Zonarus (torn. ii. L xiii. p. 26.),
Gregory

(Orat. iy. p. 116.), Augustin (de Civitate Dei, 1. iv. c. 29. l . v. c 21.).
Of

these, Libanius alone attempts a faint apology for his hero; who, according to

Aramuinus, pronounced his own condemnation, by a tardy and ineffectual attempt

to extinguish the flames.

