166 THE DECLINE AND JALL

chap. public and of Rome. Attached, either from birth

XV11. or long habit, to the climate and manners of Gaul,

they loved and admired Julian; they despised and

perhaps hated the emperor; they dreaded the la­

borious march, the Persian arrows, and the burning

deserts of Asia. They claimed as their own the

country which they had saved; and excused their

want of spirit, by pleading the sacred and more im­

mediate duty of protecting their families and friends.

The apprehensions of the Gauls were derived from

the knowledge of the impending and inevitable dan­

ger. As soon as the provinces were exhausted of

their military strength, the Germans would violate

a treaty which had been imposed on their fears; and

notwithstanding the abilities and valour of Julian,

the general of a nominal army, to whom the public

calamities would be imputed, must find himself, after

a vain resistance, either a prisoner in the camp of

the Barbarians, or a criminal in the palace of Con-

stantius. If Julian complied with the orders which

he had received, he subscribed his own destruction,

and that of a people who deserved his affection. But

a positive refusal was an act of rebellion, and a de­

claration of war. The inexorable jealousy of the

emperor, the peremptory, and perhaps insidious,

nature of his commands, left not any room for a fair

apology, or candid interpretation; and the depend­

ent station of the Caesar scarcely allowed him to

pause or to deliberate. Solitude increased the per­

plexity of Julian; he could no longer apply to the

faithful counsels of Sallust, who had been removed

from his office by the judicious malice of the eunuchs:

he could not even enforce his representations by the

concurrence of the ministers, who would have been

afraid, or ashamed, to approve the ruin of Gaul.

The moment had been chosen, when Lupicinus *,

• The danger from the Scots and Picts was so serious, that Julian himself

had some thoughts of passing over into the island.

