OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 487

"qui olim Britannias curaverat pro praefectis. Cum chap.

. . . . . xxiii.

"itaque rei idem fortiter instaret Alypius, juvaretque 1

"provincial rector, metuendi globi flammamm prope

"fundamenta crebris assultibus erumpentes, fecere

"locum exustis aliquoties operantibus inaccessum:

"hocque modo, elemento destinatius repellente,

"cessavit inceptum. Iisdem diebus legatis," &c.

On a different subject, besides the unexceptionable

testimony of this pagan historian, we find the same

occurrence related by three contemporary writers,

Ambrose, Chrysostom, and Gregory Nazianzen. The

last of these asserts, as his words are translated by

Mr. Gibbon, "This preternatural event was not dis-

"puted by the infidels." The original words of

Gregory are as follows: To Se sv its^r^rov van ba.vft.a,

kxi aSs roif aSetts ouiroi; ontirsfj,evov \e%u>v ep^ofiai, &c. Perhaps

disbelkved would have been a more literal translation

than disputed. Mr. Gibbon does not mention any

ancient writer who denies the truth of the fact. The

story is related by several succeeding authors, with

some variations and additional circumstances, but, for

the most part, copying the three foregoing fathers.

Of modern writers *, Basnage, in his Histoire des

Juifs, endeavours to controvert the truth of the story,

and the authority of the Christian authors; but he

confines his observations to Socrates, Sozomen, and

Theodoret, who wrote at a somewhat later period.

Basnage urges the following objection to the testi­

mony of Sozomen: That writer concludes his account

"Lardner expresses himself as follows: Julian, in the fragment of some

oration or epistle, having taken notice how often the Jewish temple had been

destroyed, and was not yet restored, adds, "I say not this by way of reproach,

"for I also have designed (or have had a design) to raise that temple which
has

"been so long in ruins to the honour of the God who is there worshipped." In

considering the passage in Ammianus, he expresses himself thus: "Great weight.

"was laid on the testimony of Ammianus Marcellinus. who was a heathen and an

"impartial historian." But then it has been said by some, that he had this
account

from the Christians, and took it up without examination. To which I would add

that he was credulous, as appears from many things in his history. He might

therefore, without scruple, record a miraculous interposition which had been
repeat,

ed to him. Lardner's Heathen Testimonies, vol. iv. p. 227 and 22H.

I I 4

