OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 397

execution of his illustrious father; and Theodosius chap.

. obtained, as a favour, the permission of retiring to a xxt,

private life, in his native province of Spain. He

displayed a firm and temperate character in the ease

with which he adapted himself to this new situation.

His time was almost equally divided between the

town and country: the spirit which had animated

his public conduct was shown in the active and

affectionate performance of every social duty; and

the diligence of the soldier was profitably converted

to the improvement of his ample patrimony *, which

lay between Valladolid and Segovia, in the midst of

a fruitful district, still famous for a most exquisite

breed of sheep f. From the innocent, but humble,

labours of his farm, Theodosius was transported,

in less than four months, to the throne of the

Eastern empire; and the whole period of the hi­

story of the world will not perhaps afford a similar

example, of an elevation, at the same time, so pure,

and so honourable; The princes who peaceably in­

herit the sceptre of their fathers claim and enjoy a

legal right, the more secure, as it is absolutely dir

stinct from the merits of their personal characters.

The subjects, who, in a monarchy, or a popular

. estate, acquire the possession of supreme power, may

have raised themselves, by the superiority either of

genius or virtue, above the heads of their equals:

but their virtue is seldom exempt from ambition;

and the cause of the successful candidate is frequently

stained by the guilt of conspiracy, or civil war. Even

in those governments which allow the reigning mon­

arch to declare a colleague, or a successor, his par­

tial choice, which may be influenced by the blindest

passions, is often directed to an unworthy object.

• Pacatus (in Panegyr. Vet. xii. 9.) prefers the rustic life of Theodosius to

that of Cincinnatus; the one was the effect of choice, the other of poverty.

f M. d'Anville (Geographic Ancienne, torn. i. p. 25.) has fixed the situation

of Caucha, or Coca, in the old province of Gallicia, where Zosimus and Idatius

have placed the birth, or patrimony, of Theodosius.

