OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 475

the power which supported their throne. As Rufinus chap.

passed along the ranks, and disguised, with studied XXIIL

courtesy, his innate haughtiness, the wings insensibly

wheeled from the right and left, and inclosed the

devoted victim within the circle of their arms. Be­

fore he could reflect on the danger of his situation,

Gainas gave the signal of death; a daring and for­

ward soldier plunged his sword into the breast of the

guilty praefect, and Rufinus fell, groaned, and expired

at the feet of the affrighted emperor. If the agonies

of a moment could expiate the crimes of a whole life,

or if the outrages inflicted on a breathless corpse

could be the object of pity, our humanity might per­

haps be affected by the horrid circumstances which

accompanied the murder of Rufinus. His mangled

body was abandoned to the brutal fury of the popu­

lace of either sex, who hastened in crowds, from

every quarter of the city, to trample on the remains

of the haughty minister, at whose frown they had so

lately trembled. His right hand was cut off, and

carried through the streets of Constantinople, in cruel

mockery, to extort contributions for the avaricious

tyrant, whose head was publicly exposed, borne aloft

on the point of a long lance. According to the sa­

vage maxims of the Greek republics, his innocent

family would haveshared the punishment of his crimes.

The wife and daughter of Rufinus were indebted for

their safety to the influence of religion. Her sanc­

tuary protected them from the raging madness of the

people; and they were permitted to spend the re­

mainder of their lives in the exercises of Christian

devotion, in the peaceful retirement of Jerusalem.

The servile poet of Stilicho applauds, with ferocious Discord or

ioy, this horrid deed, which, in the execution, per- empires,

haps, of justice, violated every law of nature and"

society, profaned the majesty of the prince, and re­

newed the dangerous examples of military licence. In

