OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 217

poetical compositions, the harmony and softness of chap.

the odes of Sappho. This minister, to whom Julian XVIIL

communicated, without reserve, his most careless

levities, and his most serious counsels, received an

extraordinary commission to restore, in its pristine

beauty, the temple of Jerusalem; and the diligence

of Alypius required and obtained the strenuous sup足

port of the governor of Palestine. At the call of

their great deliverer, the Jews, from all the provinces

of the empire, assembled on the holy mountain of

their fathers; and their insolent triumph alarmed

and exasperated the Christian inhabitants of Jerusa足

lem. The desire of rebuilding the temple has, in

every age, been the ruling passion of the children of

Israel. In this propitious moment the men forgot

their avarice, and the women their delicacy; spades

and pickaxes of silver were provided by the vanity of

the rich, and the rubbish was transported in mantles

of silk and purple. Every purse was opened in liberal

contributions, every hand claimed a share in the

pious labour; and the commands of a great monarch

were executed by the enthusiasm of a whole people *.

Yet, oh this occasion, the joint efforts of power The enter-

and enthusiasm were unsuccessful; and the ground defeated;

of the Jewish temple, which is now covered by a

Mahometan mosque t, still continued to exhibit the

same edifying spectacle of ruin and desolation. Per足

haps the absence and death of the emperor, and the

new maxims of a Christian reign, might explain the

interruption of an arduous work, which was attempted

only in the last six months of the life of Julian I.

* See the zeal and impatience of the Jews in Gregory Nazianzen (Orat. iv. p.  
111.) and Theodoret (1 . iii. c. 20.).

f Built by Omar, the second Khalif, who died A. D. 644. This great

mosque covers the whole consecrated ground of the Jewish temple, and
constitutes

almost a square of 700 toises, or one Roman mile in circumference. See d'An-

ville Jerusalem, p. 45.

f Ammianus records the consuls of the year 363, before he proceeds to men足

tion the thoughts of Julian. Templum . . . instaurare sumptibus cogitaiat

immodicis. M'arburton has a secret wish to anticipate the design; but he must

