(5 THE DECLINE AND FALL.

chap. yards broad, and a strong chain could be occasion-

XIv' ally drawn across it, to guard the port and city from

the attack of an hostile navy *.

ThePro, Between the Bosphorus and the Hellespont, the

pontis. shores 0f Europe and Asia receding on either side

inclose the sea of Marmara, which was known to

the ancients by the denomination of Propontis. The

navigation from the issue of the Bosphorus to the

entrance of the Hellespont is about one hundred and

twenty miles. Those who steer their westward course

through the middle of the Propontis may at once

descry the high lands of Thrace and Bithynia, and

never lose sight of the lofty summit of Mount

Olympus, covered with eternal snows f. They leave

on the left a deep gulf, at the bottom of which Ni-

comedia was seated, the imperial residence of Dio­

cletian; and they pass the small islands of Cyzicus

and Proconnesus before they cast anchor at Galli-

poli; where the sea, which separates Asia from Eu­

rope, is again contracted into a narrow channel.

The Belief- The geographers who, with the most skilful accu-

I>ont' racy, have surveyed the form and extent of the Hel­

lespont, assign about sixty miles for the winding,

course, and about three miles for the ordinary breadth

of those celebrated streights. But the narrowest

part of the channel is found to the northward of the

old Turkish castles between the cities of Cestus and

Abydus. It was here that the adventurous Leander

braved the passage of the flood for the possession of

his mistress. It was here likewise, in a place where

* See Ducange, C. P. 1 . i. part i. c. 16. and his observations sur Villehar,  
douin, p. 289. The chain was drawn from the Acropolis near the modem

Kiosk, to the tower of Galata; and was supported at convenient distances by

large wooden piles.

f Thevenot (Voyages au Levant, part i. 1. i. c. 14.) contracts the measure to

125 small Greek miles. Belon (Observations, 1. ii. c. I.) gives a good
descrip.

tion of the Propontis, but contents himself with the vague expression of one
day

and one night's sail. • When Sandys (Travels, p. 21.) talks of 150 furlongs in

length as well as breadth, we can only suppose some mistake of the press in
the

text of that judicious traveller.

