164 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. In the letters crowned with laurel, which, according

XVIL to ancient custom, were addressed to the provinces,

the name of Julian was omitted. "Constantius had

"made his dispositions in person; he had signalized

"his valour in the foremost ranks; his military con-

"duct had secured the victory; and the captive

"king of the Barbarians was presented to him on

"the field of battle," from which he was at that

time distant about forty days journey. So extrava­

gant a fable was incapable, however, of deceiving the

public credulity, or even of satisfying the pride of

the emperor himself. Secretly conscious that the

applause and favour of the Romans accompanied the

rising fortunes of Julian, his discontented mind was

prepared to receive the subtle poison of those artful

sycophants, who coloured their mischievous designs

with the fairest appearances of truth and candour.

Instead of depreciating the merits of Julian, they

acknowledged, and even exaggerated, his popular

fame, superior talents, and important services. But

they darkly insinuated, that the virtues of the Csesar

might instantly be converted into the most dangerous

crimes, if the inconstant multitude should prefer

their inclinations to their duty; or if the general of

a victorious army should be tempted from his alle­

giance by the hopes of revenge, and independent

Fears and greatness. The personal fears of Constantius were

coZtantius. interpreted by his council as a'laudable anxiety for

the public safety; whilst in private, and perhaps in

his own breast, he disguised, under the less odious

appellation of fear, the sentiments of hatred and

envy, which he had secretly conceived for the in­

imitable virtues of Julian.

J^GaKe The apparent tranquillity of Gaul, and the immi-

rn^rerfimo nent danger of the eastern provinces, offered a spe-

the East, cious pretence for the design which was artfully con-

Aprii.300' certed by the Imperial ministers. They resolved to

