OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5

had chosen.the same situation to connect the two chap.

continents by a bridge of boats. At a small distance X1V'

from the old castles we discover the little town of

Chrysopolis, or Scutari, which may almost be con­

sidered as the Asiatic suburb of Constantinople.

The Bosphorus, as it begins to open into the Pro-

pontis, passes between Byzantium and Chalcedon.

The latter of those cities was built by the Greeks,

a few years before the former; and the blindness of

its founders, who overlooked the superior advantages

of the opposite coast, has been stigmatised by a pro­

verbial expression of contempt.

The harbour of Constantinople, which may be con- The port.

sidered as an arm of the Bosphorus, obtained, in a

very remote period, the denomination of the Golden

Horn. The curve which it describes might be com­

pared to the horn of a stag, or as it should seem,

with more propriety, to that of an ox. The epithet

of golden was expressive of the riches which every

wind wafted from the most distant countries into the

secure and capacious port of Constantinople. The

river Licus, formed by the conflux of two little

streams, pours into the harbour a perpetual supply

of fresh water, which serves to cleanse the bottom,

and to invite the periodical shoals of fish to seek

their retreat in that convenient recess. As the vicis­

situdes of tides are scarcely felt in those seas, the

constant depth of the harbour allows goods to be

landed on the quays without the assistance of boats;

and it has been observed, that in many places the

largest vessels may rest their prows against the

houses, while their sterns are floating in the water *.

From the mouth of the Lycus to that of the harbour,

this arm of the Bosphorus is more than seven miles

in length. The entrance is about five hundred

• Procopius de .ffidificiis, 1. i. c. 5. • His description is confirmed by
modern

travellers. See Thevenot, part i. l . i. c. 15. Tournefort, Lcttre XII. Nie-

buhr, Voyage d'Arabie, p. 22.

B 3

