-** THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. preserve the conquered places of Assyria, a desolated

'province could not afford any large or regular supplies,

in a season of the year when the lands were covered

by the inundation of the Euphrates *, and the un­

wholesome air was darkened with swarms of in­

numerable insects t. The appearance of the hostile

country was far more inviting. The extensive region

that lies between the river Tigris and the mountains

of Media was filled with villages and towns; and

the fertile soil, for the most part, was in a very

improved state of cultivation. Julian might expect

that a conqueror, who possessed the two forcible in­

struments of persuasion, steel and gold, would easily

procure a plentiful subsistence from the fears or

avarice of the natives. But on the approach of the

Romans, this rich and smiling prospect was instantly

blasted. Wherever they moved, the inhabitants

deserted the open villages, and took shelter in the

fortified towns; the cattle was driven away; the

grass and ripe corn were consumed with fire; and as

soon as the flames had subsided which interrupted the

march of Julian, he beheld the melancholy face of a

smoking and naked desert. This desperate but ef­

fectual method of defence can only be executed by the

enthusiasm of a people who prefer their independence

to their property; or by the rigour of an arbitrary

government, which consults the public safety without

submitting to their inclinations the liberty of choice.

On the present occasion, the zeal and obedience of

the Persians seconded the commands of Sapor; and

* The Tigris rises to the south, the Euphrates to the north, of the Armenian  
mountains. The former overflows in March, the latter in July. These circum­

stances are well explained in the Geographical Dissertation of Foster,
inserted in

Spelman's Expedition of Cyrus, vol. ii. p. 26.

f Ammianus (xxiv. 8), describes, as he had felt, the inconveniency of the

flood, the heat, and the insects. The lands of Assyria, oppressed by the
Turks,

and ravished by the Curds, or Arabs, yield an increase of ten, fifteen, and
twenty

fold, for the seed which is cast into the ground by the wretched and unskilful

husbandman. Voyages de Niebuhr, torn. ii. p. 279,285.

