THE DECLINE AND FALL

the inclination to discharge this accumulated demand:

and the impartial wisdom of a legislator would have

been displayed in balancing the adverse claims and

complaints, by an equitable and temperate arbitration.

But the whole empire, and particularly the East, was

thrown into confusion by the rash edicts of Julian;

and the Pagan magistrates, inflamed by zeal and re­

venge, abused the rigorous privilege of the Roman

law, which substitutes, in the place of his inadequate

property, the person of the insolvent debtor. Under

the preceding reign, Mark, bishop of Arethusa, had

laboured in the conversion of his people with arms

more effectual than those of persuasion. The ma­

gistrates required the full value of a temple which had

been destroyed by his intolerant zeal: but as they

were satisfied of his poverty, they desired only to

bend his inflexible spirit to the promise of the slightest

compensation. They apprehended the aged prelate,

they inhumanly scourged him, they tore his beard;

and his naked body, anointed with hqney, was sus­

pended, in a net, between. heaven and earth, and ex­

posed to the stings of insects and the rays of a

Syrian sun*. From this lofty station, Mark still

persisted to glory in his crime, and to insult the

impotent rage of his persecutors. He was at length

rescued from their hands, and dismissed to enjoy the

honour of his divine triumph. The Arians cele­

brated the virtue of their pious confessor; the Ca­

tholics ambitiously claimed his alliance; and the

Pagans, who might be susceptible of shame or remorse,

were deterred from the repetition of such unavailing

cruelty. Julian spared his life; but if the bishop of

* The sufferings and constancy of Mark, which Gregory has so tragically  
painted (Orat. iii. p. 88—91.), are confirmed by the unexceptionable and re­

luctant evidence of Libanius. M.etpme exuvoc c/jityuvof, xoh partyupMii, xoti
th

nwyti>vt>t «utu TtWoptvu, navToi fvtyxw* a>5puajf vuv tffoQias tffTt Tfluf
xi/ia*?, xav

feuv irif, wififtaxirtis iu*uf. Epist. 730. p. 350, 351. Edit. Wolf. Auistel.

1738.

