222 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Christian youth should be deterred by their own

xvm, scruples, or by those of their parents, from accepting

this dangerous mode of instruction, they must, at the

same time, relinquish the benefits of a liberal educa­

tion. Julian had reason to expect that, in the space

of a few years, the church would relapse into its

primaeval simplicity, and that the theologians, who

possessed an adequate share of the learning and elo­

quence of the age, would be succeeded by a genera­

tion of blind and ignorant fanatics, incapable of de­

fending the truth of their own principles, or of ex­

posing the various follies of Polytheism.

Disgrace It was undoubtedly the wish and the design of

and oppres- T .. . . ' _. . . . - 0

sionofthe Julian to deprive the Christians of the advantages

christians. o£ wea\^ 0f knowledge, and of power; but the in­

justice of excluding them from all offices of trust and

profit seems to have been the result of his general

policy, rather than the immediate consequence of any

positive law. Superior merit might deserve, and ob­

tain, some extraordinary exceptions; but the greater

part of the Christian officers were gradually removed

from their employments in the state, the army, and

the provinces. The hopes of future candidates were

extinguished by the declared partiality of a prince,

who maliciously reminded them, that it was unlawful

for a Christian to use the sword, either of justice, or

of war; and who studiously guarded the camp and

the tribunals with the ensigns of idolatry. The

powers of government were intrusted to the Pagans,

who professed an ardent zeal for the religion of their

ancestors; and as the choice of the emperor was often

directed by the rules of divination, the favourites

whom he preferred as the most agreeable to the gods,

did not always obtain the approbation of mankind.

Under the administration of their enemies, the Chris­

tians had much to suffer, and more to apprehend.

The temper of Julian was averse to cruelty; and the

