346 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. pared with all the pomp and sensuality of the East:

xx, the hall resounded with cheerful music, and the com­

pany was already heated with wine; when the count

retired for an instant, drew his sword, and gave the

signal of the murder. A robust and desperate Bar­

barian instantly rushed on the king of Armenia; and

though he bravely defended his life with the first

weapon that chance offered to his hand, the table of

a. d. 374. the Imperial general was stained with the royal blood

of a guest, and an ally. Such were the weak and

wicked maxims of the Roman administration, that, to

attain a doubtful object of political interest, the laws

of nations, and the sacred rites of hospitality, were

inhumanly violated in the face of the world *.

v. The V. During a peaceful interval of thirty years, the

Conquests Romans secured their frontiers, and the Goths ex-

of Her- tended their dominions. The victories of the great

Hermanricf, king of the Ostrogoths, and the most

noble of the race of the Amali, have been compared,

by the enthusiasm of his countrymen, to the exploits

of Alexander: with this singular, and almost incre­

dible, difference, that the martial spirit of the Gothic

hero, instead of being supported by the vigour of

youth, was displayed with glory and success in the

extreme period of human life; between the age of

fourscore and one hundred and ten years. The in­

dependent tribes were persuaded, or compelled, to

acknowledge the king of the Ostrogoths as the sove­

reign of the Gothic nation: the chiefs of the Visi­

goths, or Thervingi, renounced the royal title, and

assumed the more humble appellation of Judges;

and, among those judges, Athanaric, Fritigern, and

Alavivus, were the most illustrious, by their personal

merit, as well as by their vicinity to the Roman pro-

• See in Ammianus (xxx. 1.) the adventures of Para.

.(. The concise account of the reign and conquests of Hermanric seems to be

one of the valuable fragments which Jornandcs (c. 28.) borrowed from the

Gothic histories of Ablavius, or Cassiodorius.

