360 THK DECLINE AND FALL

chap. considered these alarming strokes as,the prelude only

XXI, of still more dreadful calamities, and their fearful

vanity was disposed to confound the symptoms of a

declining empire,.and a sinking world*.

In the disastrous period of the fall of the Roman

empire, which may justly be dated from the reign of

Valens, the happiness and security of each individual

were personally attacked; and the arts and labours

of ages were rudely defaced by the Barbarians of

The Hun? Scythia and Germany. The invasion of the Huns

a^w' Precipitate<lon tne provinces of the West the Gothic

nation, which advanced, in less than forty years, from

the Danube to the Atlantic, and opened a way, by

the success of their arms, to the inroads of so many

hostile tribes, more savage than themselves.

Their con- It is impossible to fill the dark interval of time,

Aiani.°f the which elapsed, after the Huns of the Volga were lost

in the eyes of the Chinese; and before they showed

themselves to those of the Romans. There is some

reason, however, to apprehend, that the same force

which had driven them from their native seats still

continued to impel their march towards the frontiers

of Europe. The power of the Sienpi, their implaca­

ble enemies, which extended above three thousand

miles from East to West, must have gradually op­

pressed them by the weight and terror of a formidable

neighbourhood; and the flight of the tribes of Scy­

thia would inevitably tend to increase the strength, or

to contract the territories, of the Huns. The harsh

and obscure appellations of those tribes would offend

the ear, without informing the understanding, of the

reader •, but I cannot suppress the very natural sus­

picion, that the Huns of the North derived a consi-

* The earthquakes and inundations are variously described by Libanius, (Orat.  
de ulciscenda Juliani nece, c. x. in Fabricius, Biol. Graec. torn. vii. p.
158, with

a learned note of Olearius), Zosimus (1. iv. p. 221), Sozomen (1. vi. c. 2),

Cedrenus (p. 310. 314\ and Jerom (in Chron. p. 186. and torn. i. p. 250. in'

Vit , Hilarion.)

