48 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. These official spies, who regularly corresponded with

. XIV' the palace, were encouraged, by favour and reward,

anxiously to watch the progress of every treasonable

design, from the faint and latent symptoms of dis­

affection, to the actual preparation of an open revolt.

Their careless or criminal violation of truth and

justice was covered by the consecrated mask of zeal;

and they might securely aim their poisoned arrows

at the breast either of the guilty or the innocent,

who had provoked their resentment, or refused to

purchase their silence. A faithful subject, of Syria

perhaps, or of Britain, was exposed to the danger,

or at least to the dread, of being dragged in chains,

to the court of Milan or Constantinople, to defend

his life and fortune against the malicious charge of

these privileged informers. The ordinary admini­

stration was conducted by those methods which ex­

treme necessity can alone palliate; and the defects

of evidence were diligently supplied by the use of

torture.

Useoftor- The deceitful and dangerous experiment of the

u criminal qucestion, as it is emphatically styled, was

admitted, rather than approved, in the jurispru­

dence of the Romans. They applied this sanguinary

mode of examination only to servile bodies, whose

sufferings were seldom weighed by those haughty re­

publicans in the scale of justice or humanity: but

they would never consent to violate the sacred per­

son of a citizen, till they possessed the clearest evi­

dence of his guilt *. The annals of tyranny, from

the reign of Tiberius to that of Domitian, circum­

stantially relate the executions of many innocent vic­

tims; but, as long as the faintest remembrance was

kept alive,of the national freedom and honour, the

* The Pandects (1. xlviii. tit. xviii.) contain the sentiments of the most cele­  
brated civilians on the subject of torture. They strictly confine it to
slaves; and

Ulpian himself is ready to acknowledge, that Res est fragilis, et periculosa,
et

(mae veritatem fallat.

