OP THE ROMAN EMPIEK. 473

was exercised in the name of their young sovereign, chap.

Two rivals only remained to dispute the claims, and to XX1IJ,

provoke the vengeance, of Stilicho. Within the limits

of Africa, Gildo, the Moor, maintained a proud and

dangerous independence; and the minister of Con­

stantinople asserted his equal reign over the emperor,

and the empire, of the East.

The impartiality which Stilicho affected, as the The fail

common guardian of the royal brothers, engaged him *f Rufinus,

to regulate the equal division of the arms, the jewels, yj^gfifc

and the magnificent wardrobe and furniture of the

deceased emperor. But the most important object

of the inheritance consisted of the numerous legions,

cohorts, and squadrons of Romans, or Barbarians,

whom the event of the civil war had united under

the standard of Theodosius. The various multitudes

of Europe and Asia, exasperated by recent animosi­

ties, were overawed by the authority of a single man;

and the rigid discipline of Stilicho protected the lands

of the citizen from the rapine of the licentious soldier *.

Anxious, however, and impatient, to relieve Italy

from the presence of this formidable host, which could

be useful only on the frontiers of the empire, he list­

ened to the just requisition of the minister of Arca-

dius, declared his intention of re-conducting in per­

son the troops of the East; and dexterously employed

the rumour of a Gothic tumult to conceal his pri­

vate designs of ambition and revenge |- The guilty

soul of Rufinus was alarmed by the approach of a

warrior and a rival, whose enmity he deserved; he

computed, with increasing terror, the narrow space

* Tantoque remoto

Principe, mutatas orbis non sensit habenas.

This high commendation (i. Cons. Stil. i. 149), may be justified by the fears
of

the dying emperor (de Bell. Gildon. 292—301); and the peace and good order

which were enjoyed after his death (i Cons. Stil. i. 150--1C8).

f Stilicho's march, and the death of Rufinus, were described by Claudian (in

Rutin. I. ii. 101-453), Zosimus (1. v. p. 29fi, 297), Sozornen (1. viii. c.
1),

Socrates (1. vi. c 1), Philostorgius, (1. xi. c. 3. with Godefroy, p. 141),
and the

Chronicle of Marcellinus.

