5i THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. had not yet been seen in Italy, the cause of this

XIv' amazing desolation, which is recorded in the laws,

can be ascribed only to the administration of the

Roman emperors.

Either from design or from accident, the mode

a capitation. of assessment seemed to unite the substance of a

land-tax with the forms of a capitation. The re­

turns which were sent of every province or district

expressed the number of tributary subjects, and the

amount of the public impositions. The latter of

these sums was divided by the former; and the esti­

mate, that such a province contained so many capita,

or heads of tribute, and that each head was rated

at such a price, was universally received, not only

in the popular, but even in the legal computation.

The value of a tributary head must have varied, ac­

cording to many accidental, or at least fluctuating

circumstances: but some knowledge has been pre­

served of a very curious fact, the more important,

since it relates to one of the richest provinces of the

Roman empire, and which now flourishes as the

most splendid of the European kingdoms. The ra­

pacious ministers of Constantius had exhausted the

wealth of Gaul, by exacting twenty-five pieces of

gold for the annual tribute of every head. The hu­

mane policy of his successor reduced the capitation

to seven pieces. A moderate proportion between

these opposite extremes of extravagant oppression

and of transient indulgence, may therefore be fixed

at sixteen pieces of gold, or about nine pounds ster­

ling, the common standard perhaps of the impositions

of Gaul *. But this calculation, or rather indeed

the facts from whence it is deduced, cannot fail of

suggesting two difficulties to a thinking mind, who

• In the calculation of any sum of money under Constantine and his successors,

we need only refer to the excellent discourse of Mr. Greaves on the Denarius.

From him we may compute the Roman pound of gold, the usual method of

reckoning large sums, at forty pounds sterling, and we may fix the currency of

.the aureus at somewhat more than eleven shillings.

