182 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. celebrated by the games of the Circus; but, early on

XVIL the morning of the third day, Julian marched to

occupy the narrow pass of Succi, in the defiles of

Mount Haemus; which, almost in the mid-way be足

tween Sirmium and Constantinople, separates the

provinces of Thrace and Dacia, by an abrupt descent

towards the former, and a gentle declivity on the side

of the latter. The defence of this important post

was intrusted to the brave Nevitta; who, as well as

the generals of the Italian division, successfully exe足

cuted the plan of the march and junction which their

master had so ably conceived*.

Hejustifies The homage which Julian obtained, from the fears

his cause. ... n

or the inclination of the people, extended far beyond

the immediate effect of his armsf. The prefectures

of Italy and Illyricum were administered by Taurus

and Florentius, who united that important office with

the vain honours of the consulship; and as those ma足

gistrates had retired with precipitation to the court of

Asia, Julian, who could not always restrain the levity

of his temper, stigmatized their flight by adding, in

all the Acts of the Year, the epithet of fugitive to

the names of the two consuls. The provinces which

had been deserted by their first magistrates acknow足

ledged the authority of an emperor, who, conciliating

the qualities of a soldier with those of a philosopher,

was equally admired in the camps of the Danube,

and in the cities of Greece. From his palace, or,

more properly, from his head-quarters of Sirmium

and Naissus, he distributed to the principal cities of

the empire a laboured apology for his own conduct 'r

published the secret despatches of Constantius; and

solicited the judgment of mankind between two com-

* Whatever circumstances we may borrow elsewhere, Ammianus (xxi. 8, 9,  
10.) still supplies the series of the narrative.

f Ammian. xxi. 9, 10. Libanius, Orat. Parent. c. 54. p. 279, 280. Zosi-

mus, 1. iii. p. 156,157.

