OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 379

piously discharged to some officers of distinguished chap.

rank; but the indiscriminate vulgar was left unburied XXL

on the plain. Their flesh was greedily devoured by

the birds of prey, who, in that age, enjoyed very fre­

quent and delicious feasts: and several years after­

wards the white and naked bones, which covered the

wide extent of the fields, presented to the eyes of

Ammianus a dreadful monument of the battle of

Salices*.

The progress of the Goths had been checked by Union of

the doubtful event of that bloody day; and the Im-

perial generals, whose army would have been con-^u™'Ala-

sumed by the repetition of such a contest, embraced

the more rational plan, of destroying the Barbarians

by the wants and pressure of their own multitudes.

They prepared to confine the Visigoths in the nar­

row angle of land, between the Danube, the desert

of Scythia, and the mountains of Haemus, till their

strength and spirit should be insensibly wasted by the

inevitable operation of famine. The design was pro­

secuted with some conduct and success; the Bar­

barians had almost exhausted their own magazines,

and the harvests of the country; and the diligence

of Saturninus, the master-general of the cavalry, was

employed to improve the strength, and to contract

the extent, of the Roman fortifications. His labours

were interrupted by the alarming intelligence, that

new swarms of Barbarians had passed the unguarded

Danube, either to support the cause, or to imitate the

example, of Fritigern. The just apprehension, that

he himself might be surrounded, and overwhelmed,

by the arms of hostile and unknown nations, com-

* Indicant nunc usque albentes ossibus campi. Ammian. xxxi. 7.—The hi­  
storian might have viewed these plains, either as a soldier, or as a
traveller. But

his modesty has suppressed the adventures of his own life subsequent to the
Per­

sian wars of Constantius and Julian. We arc ignorant of the time when he

quitted the service and retired to Rome, where he appears to have composed his

History of his own Times.

/

