228 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. revenge of the Galilaeans*. Their offence, had it

XV111. been sufficiently proved, might have justified the re足

taliation which was immediately executed by the

fhiluthe or^er of Ju"an, of shutting the doors, and con-

cathedrai fiscating the wealth, of the cathedral of Antioch.

ofAndoch. Tq discover tne criminais who were guilty of the

tumult, of the fire, or of secreting the riches of the

church, several ecclesiastics were tortured; and a

presbyter, of the name of Theodoret, was beheaded

by the sentence of the Count of the East. But this

hasty act was blamed by the emperor; who lamented,

with real or affected concern, that the imprudent

zeal of his ministers would tarnish his reign with the

disgrace of persecution.

The zeal of the ministers of Julian was instantly

checked by the frown of their sovereign; but when

the father of his country declares himself the leader

of a faction, the licence of popular fury cannot easily

be restrained, nor consistently punished. Julian, in

a public composition, applauds the devotion and

loyalty of the holy cities of Syria, whose pious in足

habitants had destroyed, at the first signal, the se足

pulchres of the Galilaeans; and faintly complains,

. that they had revenged the injuries of the gods with

less moderation than he should have recommended.

This imperfect and reluctant confession may appear

to confirm the ecclesiastical narratives; that in the

cities of Gaza, Ascalon, Caesarea, Heliopolis, &c. the

Pagans abused, without prudence or remorse, the

moment of their prosperity: that the unhappy ob足

jects of their cruelty were released from torture only

by death; that as their mangled bodies were dragged

through the streets, they were pierced (such was

the universal rage) by the spits of cooks, and the

* Julian (in Misopogon, p. 361.) rather insinuates, than affirms, their guilt;  
Ammianus (xxii. 13.) treats the imputation as levissimus rumor, and relates
the

story with extraordinary candour.

