OF THE K.OMANT EMPIRE. 89

vinee mankind, that these princes were as cold to the chap.

endearments of conjugal affection, as they were in- xv,

sensible to the ties of consanguinity, and the moving

entreaties of youth and innocence. Of so numerous

a family, Gallus and Julian alone, the two youngest

children of Julius Constantius, were saved from the

hands of the assassins, till their rage, satiated with

slaughter, had in some measure subsided. The em­

peror Constantius, who, in the absence of his bro­

thers, was the most obnoxious to guilt and reproach,

discovered, on .some future occasions, a faint and

transient remorse for those cruelties which the per­

fidious counsels of his ministers, and the irresistible

violence of the troops, had extorted from his unex­

perienced youth *.

The massacre of the Flavian race was succeeded by Division of

a new division of the provinces; which was ratified A?rA337?

in a personal interview of the three brothers. Con- Sept. 1 !*

stantine, the eldest of the Caesars, obtained with a

certain pre-eminence of rank, the possession of the

new capital, which bore his own name and that of his

father. Thrace and the countries of the east, were

allotted for the patrimony of Constantius; and Con-

stans was acknowledged as the lawful sovereign of

Italy, Africa, and the western Illyricum. The armies

submitted to their hereditary right; and they con­

descended, after some delay, to accept from the Ro­

man senate the title of Augustus. When they first

assumed the reins of government, the eldest of these

princes was twenty-one, the second twenty, and the

third only seventeen, years of age.

While the martial nations of Europe followed the Sapor Hng

x of Persia,

A. D.310,

* Julian (ad S. P. Q. Athen. p. 270.) charges his cousin Constantius with  
the whole guilt of a massacre, from which he himself so narrowly escaped. His

assertion is confirmed by Athanasius, who, for reasons of a very different
nature,

was not less an enemy of Constantius (torn. i. p. 856.). Zosimus joins in the

same accusation. But the three abbreviators, Eutropius and the Victors, use

very qualifying expressions; "sinente potius quam jubente;" "incertum quo

"suasore;" "vi militum."

