156 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. from his presence, impressed with the warmest sen-

XVI' timents of gratitude and admiration *.

Makes three It was not enough for Julian to have delivered the

bey™dUthe provinces of Gaul from the Barbarians of Germany.

ad%57 ^e asP*re^ t0 emulate the glory of the first and most

358,359. illustrious of the emperors; after whose example he

composed his own commentaries of the Gallic war.

Caesar has related, with conscious pride, the manner

in which he twice passed the Rhine. Julian could

boast, that before he assumed the title of Augustus,

he had carried the Roman eagles beyond that great

river in three successful expeditions t. The con­

sternation of the Germans, after the battle of Stras-

burgh, encouraged him to the first attempt; and the

reluctance of the troops soon yielded to the persua­

sive eloquence of a leader, who shared the fatigues

and dangers which he imposed on the meanest of the

soldiers. The villages on either side of the Meyn,

which were plentifully stored with corn and cattle,

felt the ravages of an invading army. The principal

houses, constructed with some imitation of Roman

elegance, were consumed by the flames; and the

Caesar boldly advanced about ten miles, till his pro­

gress was stopped by a dark and impenetrable forest,

undermined by subterraneous passages, which threat­

ened, with secret snares and ambush, every step of

the assailant. The ground was already covered with

snow; and Julian, after repairing an ancient castle

which had been erected by Trajan, granted a truce

of ten months to the submissive Barbarians. At the

expiration of the truce, Julian undertook a second

expedition beyond the Rhine, to humble the pride

of Surmar and Hortaire, two of the kings of the

* This interesting story, which Zosimus has abridged, is related by Eunapius  
(in Excerpt , Legationum, p. 15, 16, 17.) with all the amplifications of
Grecian

rhetoric: but the silence of Libanius, of Ammianus, and of Julian himself,
ren­

ders the truth of it extremely suspicious.

f See Ammian. xvii. 1. 10. xviii. 2. and Zosim. 1. iii. p. 144. Julian. ad

S. P. Q. Athen. p. 280.

