OF THE EOMAN EMPIRK. 261

of a princewho possesses the virtues which he approves, chap.

is the noblest recompense of a deserving subject; and XIX"

the authority which Julian derived from his personal

merit enabled him to revive and enforce the rigour

of ancient discipline. He punished with death, or

ignominy, the misbehaviour of three troops of horse,

who, in a skirmish with the Surenas, had lost their

honour, and one of their standards; and he distin­

guished with obsidional crowns the valour of the fore­

most soldiers, who had ascended into the city of Mao-

gamalcha. After the siege of Perisabor, the firmness

of the emperor was exercised by the insolent avarice

of the army, who loudly complained that their services

were rewarded by a trifling donative of one hundred

pieces of silver. His just indignation was expressed in

the grave and manly language of a Roman. "Riches

"are the object of your desires? those riches are in

"the hands of the Persians; and the spoils of this

". fruitful country are proposed as the prize of your

"valour and discipline. Believe me," added Julian,

"the Roman republic, which formerly possessed such

." immense treasures, is now reduced to want and

"wretchedness; since our princes have been per-

"suaded, by weak and interested ministers, to pur-

"chase with gold the tranquillity of the Barbarians.

"The revenue is exhausted; the cities are ruined;

"the provinces are dispeopled. For myself, the only

"inheritance that I have received from my royal an-

'." cestors is a soul incapable of fear; and as long as

"I am convinced that every real advantage is seated

"in the mind, I shall not blush to acknowledge an

•" honourable poverty, which, in the days of ancient

"virtue, was considered as the glory of Fabricius.

"That glory, and that virtue, may be your own, if

"you will listen to the voice of Heaven, and of your

"leader. But if you will rashly persist, if you are

"determined to renew the shameful and mischievous

s 3

