874 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. voke, who had neglected to destroy, and who still

XX1 presumed to despise, his formidable enemy, marched

against the Goths, at the head of such a military

force as could be collected on this sudden emergency.

The Barbarians expected his approach about nine

miles from Mafcianopolis; and on this occasion the

talents of the general were found to be of more pre­

vailing efficacy than the weapons and discipline of

the troops. The valour of the Goths was so ably

directed by the genius of Fritigern, that they broke,

by a close and vigorous attack, the ranks of the Ro­

man legions. Lupicinus left his arms and standards,

his tribunes and his bravest soldiers, on the field of

battle; and their useless courage served only to pro­

tect the ignominious flight of their leader. "That

"successful day put an end to the distress of the

"Barbarians, and the security of the Romans: from

"that day the Goths, renouncing the precarious con-

"dition of strangers and exiles, assumed the charac-

"ter of citizens and masters, claimed an absolute

"dominion over the possessors of land, and held, in

"their own right, the northern provinces of the em-

"pire, which are bounded by the Danube." Such

are the words of the Gothic historian, who celebrates,

with rude eloquence, the glory of his countrymen.

But the dominion of the Barbarians was exercised

only for the purposes of rapine and destruction. As

they had been deprived, by the ministers of the em­

peror, of the common benefits of nature, and the fair

intercourse of social life, they retaliated the injustice

on the subjects of the empire; and the crimes of

Thcypcnc- Lupicinus were expiated by the ruin of the peaceful

Thraoe!° husbandmen of Thrace, the conflagration of their vil-

. lages, and the massacre, or captivity, of their inno­

cent families. The report of the Gothic victory was

soon diffused over the adjacent country; and while it

filled the minds of the Romans with terror and dis­

