OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 267

threatened the most inauspicious events; and Julian chap.

soon discovered, by less ambiguous signs, that he had xlx.

now reached the term of his prosperity *.

On the second day after the battle, the domestic situation

guards, the Jovians and Herculians, and the remain- nacy°of"

ing troops, which composed near two thirds of the AulDn'363.

whole army, were securely wafted over the Tigris f. June.

While the Persians beheld from the walls of Ctesiphon

the desolation of the adjacent country, Julian cast

many an anxious look towards the North, in full ex­

pectation, that as hehimself had victoriously penetrated

to the capital of Sapor, the march and junction of his

lieutenants, Sebastian and Procopius, would be exe­

cuted with the same courage and diligence. His ex­

pectations were disappointed by the treachery of the

Armenian king, who permitted, and most probably

directed, the desertion of his auxiliary troops from

the camp of the Romans f; and by the dissensions

of the two generals, who were incapable of forming

or executing any plan for the public service. When

the emperor had relinquished the hope of this im­

portant reinforcement, he condescended to hold a

council of war, and approved, after a full debate, the

sentiment of those generals, who dissuaded the siege of

Ctesiphon, as a fruitless and pernicious undertaking.

It is not easy for us to conceive by what arts of for­

tification a city, thrice besieged and taken by the

predecessors of Julian, could be rendered impregnable

against an army of sixty thousand Romans, com­

manded by a brave and experienced general, and

* The labour of the canal, the passage of the Tigris, and the victory, are  
described by Ammianus (xxiv. 5, 6.), Libanius (Orat , Parent. c 124—128.

p. 347—353.), Greg. Nazianzen (Orat. iv. p. 115.), Zosimus (l . iii. p. 181

—183.), and Sextus Rufus (de Provinciis, c. 28.).

f The fleet and army were formed in three divisions, of which the first only
had

passed during the night (Ammian. xx. iv. 6). The Joft/pojiix, whom

Zosimus transports on the third day (1. iii. p. 183.), might consist of the

protectors, among whom the historian Ammianus, and the future emperor

Jovian, actually served; some schools of the domestics, and perhaps the
Jovians

and Herculians, who often did duty as guards.

