OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 403

army of his countrymen, who were immersed in wine chap.

and sleep; and after a cruel slaughter of the asto- XXL

nished Goths, returned with an immense spoil, and

four thousand waggons, to the Imperial camp. In

the hands of a skilful politician, the most different

means may be successively applied to the same ends:

and the peace of the empire, which had been for足

warded by the divisions, was accomplished by the re足

union, of the Gothic nation. Athanaric, who had Death and

been a patient spectator of these extraordinary events, Athanaric,

was at length driven, by the chance of arms, from the A,D, 3*1,

dark recesses of the woods of Caucaknd. He no

longer hesitated to pass the Danube; and a very

considerable part of the subjects of Fritigern, who

already felt the inconveniencies of anarchy, were

easily persuaded to acknowledge for their king a

Gothic judge, whose birth they respected, and whose

abilities they had frequently experienced. But age

had chilled the daring spirit of Athanaric; and, in足

stead of leading his people to the field of battle and

victory, he wisely listened to the fair proposal of an

,honourable and advantageous treaty. Theodosius,

who was acquainted with the merit and power of his

new ally, condescended to meet him at the distance

of several miles from Constantinople; and enter足

tained him in the Imperial city, with the confidence

of a friend, and the magnificence of a monarch.

"The Barbarian prince observed, with curious atten-

"tion, the variety of objects which attracted his

"notice, and at last broke out into a sincere and

"passionate exclamation of wonder. I now behold

"(said he) what I never could believe, the glories

** of this stupendous capital! and as he cast his eyes  
"around, he viewed, and he admired, the command*

"ing situation of the city, the strength and beauty of

"the walls and public edifices, the capacious har-

"hour, crowded with innumerable vessels, the per-

D D 2

