OF THE ROMAN EMPIEE. 293

After Jovian had performed those engagements, chap.

which the voice of his people might have tempted XIX,

him to violate, he hastened away from the scene of Reflec.

his disgrace, and proceeded with his whole court to thed™th,

enjoy the luxury of Antioch. He was prompted, by

humanity and gratitude, to bestow the last honours

on the remains of his deceased sovereign: and Pro-

copius, who sincerely bewailed the loss of his kinsman,

was removed from the command of the army, under

the decent pretence of conducting the funeral. The

corpse of Julian was transported from Nisibis to Tar­

sus, in a slow march of fifteen days; and, as it passed

through the cities of the East, was saluted by the

hostile factions, with mournful lamentations and cla­

morous insults. The Pagans already placed their

beloved hero in the rank of those gods whose worship

he had restored.

It was an ancient custom in the funerals, as well and funeral

.... „ . . . of Julian.

as in the triumphs, of the Romans, that the voice of

praise should be corrected by that of satire and ridi­

cule; and that, in the midst of the splendid pageants,

which displayed the glory of the living or" of the

dead, their imperfections should not be concealed

from the eyes of the world. This custom was prac­

tised in the funeral of Julian. The comedians, who

resented his contempt and aversion for the theatre,

exhibited, with the applause of a Christian audience,

the lively and exaggerated representation of the

faults and follies of the deceased emperor. His vari­

ous character and singular manners afforded an ample

scope for pleasantry and ridicule. In the exercise of

his uncommon talents, he often descended below the

majesty of his rank. Alexander was transformed

into Diogenes; the philosopher was degraded into

a priest. The purity of his virtue was sullied by ex­

cessive vanity; his superstition disturbed the peace,

and endangered the safety, of a mighty empire; and

u 3

