OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

perfects, and entrusted to their care the same pro­

vinces which they already administered. 1. The

preefect of the East stretched his ample jurisdiction

into the three parts of the globe which were subject

to the Romans, from the cataracts of the Nile to the

banks of the Phasis, and from the mountains of

Thrace to the frontiers of Persia. 2. The import­

ant provinces of Pannonia, Dacia, Macedonia, and

Greece, once acknowledged the authority of the pre­

fect of Illyricum. 3. The power of the praefect of

Italy was not confined to the country from whence

he derived his title; it extended over the additional

territory of Rhaetia as far as the banks of the Danube,

over the dependent islands of the Mediterranean,.

and over that part of the continent of Africa which

lies between the confines of Cyrene and those of

Tingitania. 4. The prasfect of the Gauls compre­

hended under that plural denomination the kindred

provinces of Britain and Spain, and his authority

was obeyed from the wall of Antoninus to the foot of

Mount Atlas*.

After the Praetorian praefects had been dismissed

from all military command, the civil functions which

they were ordained to exercise over so many subject

nations were adequate to the ambition and abilities

of the most consummate ministers. To their wisdom

was committed the supreme administration of j ustice

and of the finances, the two objects which, in a state

of peace, comprehend almost all the respective duties

of the sovereign and of the people; of the former, to

protect the citizens who are obedient to the laws;

of the latter, to contribute the share of their pro­

perty which is required for the expenses of the state.

The coin, the highways, the posts, the granaries, the

* Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 109, 110. If we had not fortunately possessed this satis.  
factory account of the division of the power and provinces of the Prtetorian

prefects, we should frequently have been perplexed amidst the copious details
of

the Code, and the circumstantial minuteness of the Notitia.

