420 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. "Trinity. We authorise the followers of this doc-

xxIL "trine to assume the title of Catholic Christians;

"and as we judge that all others are extravagant

"madmen, we brand them with the infamous name

"of Heretics; and declare, that their conventicles

"shall no longer usurp the respectable appellation of

"churches. Besides the condemnation of Divine

"justice, they must expect to suffer the.severe penal-

"ties, which our authority, guided by heavenly wis-

"dom, shall think proper to inflict upon them *."

The faith of a soldier is commonly the fruit of in­

struction, rather than of inquiry; but as the emperor

always fixed his eyes on the visible land-marks of

orthodoxy, which he had so prudently constituted,

his religious opinions were never affected by the spe­

cious texts, the subtle arguments, and the ambiguous

creeds of the Arian doctors.

rfConstan Constantinople was the principal seat and fortress

tinopie. of Arianism; and, in a long interval of forty years,

38o. *340— the faith of the princes and prelates, who reigned in

the capital of the East, was rejected in the purer

schools of Rome and Alexandria. The archiepis-

copal throne of Macedonius, which had been polluted

with so much Christian blood, was successively filled

by Eudoxus and Damophilus. Their diocese en­

joyed a free importation of vice and error from every

province of the empire; the eager pursuit of religious

controversy afforded a new occupation to the busy

idleness of the metropolis. The heretics, of various

denominations, subsisted in peace under the protec­

tion of the Arians of Constantinople; who endea­

voured to secure the attachment of those obscure

sectaries; while they abused, with unrelenting se­

verity, the victory which they had obtained over the

followers of the council of Nice. During the partial

reigns of Constantius and Valens, the feeble remnant

of the Homoousians was deprived of the public and

* Codex Theodos. 1. xvi. tit. i. leg. 2.

