406' THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. netrable chain of two miles and a half along the river.

XXI' While they struggled to force their way in the un­

equal conflict, their right flank was overwhelmed by

the irresistible attack of a fleet of galleys, which were

urged down the stream by the united impulse of oars

and of the tide.. The weight and velocity of those

ships of war broke, and sunk, and dispersed, the rude

and feeble canoes of the Barbarians: their valour was

ineffectual; and Alatheus, the king, or general, of

the Ostrogoths, perished, with his bravest troops,

either by the sword of the Romans, or in the waves

of the Danube. The last division of this unfortunate

fleet might regain the opposite shore; but the distress

and disorder of the multitude rendered them alike

incapable, either of action or counsel; and they soon

implored the clemency of the victorious enemy. On

this occasion, as well as on many others, it is a diffi­

cult task to reconcile the passions and prejudices of

the writers of the age of Theodosius. The partial

and malignant historian, who misrepresents every

action of his reign, affirms that the emperor did not

appear in the field of battle till the Barbarians had

been vanquished by the valour and conduct of his

lieutenant Promotus. The flattering poet, who cele­

brated, in the court of Honorius, the glory of the

father and of the son, ascribes the victory to the per­

sonal prowess of Theodosius; and almost insinuates,

that the king of the Ostrogoths was slain by the hand

of the emperor. The truth of history might perhaps

be found in a just medium between these extreme and

contradictory assertions.

Settlement The original treaty which fixed the settlement of

Goths in the Goths, ascertained their privileges, and stipulated

™lT<im, tneir obligations, would illustrate the history of Theo-

383-395 ^0Sms an(* n*s successors. The series of their history

has imperfectly preserved the spirit and substance of

this singular agreement. The ravages of war and

