THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. and a sage; the philosophers who had accompanied

XIX, him in this fatal expedition compared the tent of

Julian with the prison of Socrates; and the spec­

tators, whom duty, or friendship, or curiosity, had

assembled round his couch, listened with respectful

grief to the funeral oration of their dying emperor *.

"Friends and fellow-soldiers, the seasonable period

"of my departure is now arrived, and I discharge,

"with the cheerfulness of a ready debtor, the de-

"mands of nature. I have learned from philoso-

"phy, how much the soul is more excellent than

"the body; and that the separation of the nobler

"substance should be the subject of joy, rather than

"of affliction. I have learned from religion, that

"an early death has often been the reward of piety;

"and I accept, as a favour of the gods, the mortal

"stroke that secures me from the danger of dis-

"gracing a character, which has hitherto been sup-

"ported by virtue and fortitude. I die without re-

"morse, as I have lived without guilt. I am pleased

"to reflect on the innocence of my private life; and

"I can affirm with confidence, that the supreme

"authority, that emanation of the Divine Power,

"has been preserved in my hands pure and imma-

"culate. Detesting the corrupt and destructive

"maxims of despotism, I have considered the hap-

"piness of the people as the end of government.

"Submitting my actions to the laws of prudence, of

"justice, and of moderation, I have trusted the

"event to the care of Providence. Peace was the

"object of my counsels, as long as peace was con-

"sistent with the public welfare; but when the im-

ft perious voice of my country summoned me to

* The character and situation of Julian might countenance the suspicion, that  
he had previously cornposed the elaborate oration, which Ammianus heard, and

has transcribed. The version of the Abbe de la Bleterie is faithful and
elegant.

J have followed him in expressing the Platonic idea of emanations, which is

darkly insinuated in the original.

