OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

and they viewed from afar the walls of the holy city, chap.

which were profaned in their eyes by the triumph of XVIIL

the cross, and the devotion of the Christians *.

In the midst of a rocky and barren country, the Jerusalem.

walls of Jerusalem t inclosed the two mountains of

Sion and Acra, within an oval figure of about three

English miles t. Towards the south, the upper town,

and the fortress of David, were erected on the lofty

ascent of Mount Sion: on the north side, the build­

ings of the lower town covered the spacious summit

of Mount Acra; and a part of the hill, distinguished

by the name of Moriah, and levelled by human in­

dustry, was crowned with the stately temple of the

Jewish nation. After the final destruction of the

temple, by the arms of Titus and Hadrian, a plough­

share was drawn over the consecrated ground, as a

sign of perpetual interdiction. Sion was deserted;

and the vacant space of the lower city was filled with

the public and private edifices of the JElian colony,

which spread themselves over the adjacent hill of

Calvary. The holy places were polluted with monu­

ments of idolatry; and, either from design or acci­

dent, a chapel was dedicated to Venus, on the spot

which had been sanctified by the death and resurrec­

tion of Christ. Almost three hundred years after

those stupendous events, the profane chapel of Venus

was demolished by the order of Constantine; and

the removal of the earth and stones revealed the holy

sepulchre to the eyes of mankind. A magnificent

church was erected on that mystic ground, by the

first Christian emperor; and the effects of his pious

* Basnage has fully illustrated the state of the Jews under Constantine and  
his successors (torn. viii. c. ir. p. 111—153).

f Reland (Palestin. 1. i. p. 309. 390.1. Hi. p. 838.) 'describes, with
learning

and perspicuity, Jerusalem, and the face of the adjacent country.

J I have consulted a rare and curious treatise of M. d'Anville (sur l'ancienne

Jerusalem, Paris, 1747; p. 75,). The circumference of the ancient city (Euseb.

Preparat. Evangel. I ix. c. 36.) was twenty-seven stadia, or '2550 toises. A
plan,

taken on the spot, assigns no more than 1980 for the modern town. The circuit

is defined by natural landmarks, which cannot be mistaken or removed,

P 4

