326 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XX.

II. Bai-

TAIN.

The Scots

and Piets.

cretly posted in a deep valley, betrayed the ambus­

cade; and they would perhaps have fallen the victims

of their own treachery, if a large body of cuirassiers,

alarmed by the noise of the combat, had not hastily

advanced to extricate their companions, and to over­

whelm the undaunted valour of the Saxons. Some

of the prisoners were saved from the edge of the

sword, to shed their blood in the amphitheatre: and

the orator Symmachus complains, that twenty-nine

of those desperate savages, by strangling themselves

with their own hands, had disappointed the amuse­

ment of the public. Yet the polite and philosophic

citizens of Rome were impressed with the deepest

horror, when they were informed, that the Saxons

consecrated to the gods the tythe of their human

spoil: and that they ascertained by lot the objects

of the barbarous sacrifice.

II. The fabulous colonies of Egyptians and Tro­

jans, of Scandinavians and Spaniards, which flattered

the pride, and amused the credulity, of our rude

ancestors, have insensibly vanished in the light of

science and philosophy. The present age is satisfied

with the simple and rational opinion, that the islands

of Great Britain and Ireland were gradually peopled

from the adjacent continent of Gaul. From the

coast of Kent, to the extremity of Caithness and

Ulster, the memory of a Celtic origin was distinctly

preserved, in the perpetual resemblance of language,

of religion, and of manners; and the peculiar cha­

racters of the British tribes might be naturally

ascribed to the influence of accidental and local cir­

cumstances *. The Roman province was reduced to

* Tacitus, or rather his father-in-law Agricola, might remark the German or  
Spanish cornplexion of some British tribes. But it was their sober deliberate
opi­

nion: " In universum tamen aestimanti Gallos vicinum solum occupasse credibile

"est. Eorum sacra deprehendas.. sermo haud multum diversus (in Vit. Agricol.

"c. xi.)" Ca»ar had observed their cornmon" religion (Comment. de Bello Gal-

lico, vi. 13.); and in his time the emigration from the Belgic Gaul was a
recent,

or at least an historical event (v. 10.) Camden, the British Strabo, has
modestly

ascertained our genuine antiquities (Britannia, vol. i. Introduction, p.
ii—xxxi.).

