240 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. legions of Gaul, and the discipline and spirit of the

XIx' Eastern troops. Julian was persuaded to fix, till the

Julian pro- ensuing spring, his residence at Antioch, among a

Constat)- people maliciously disposed to deride the haste, and

Antfoch'0 t0 censure *ne delays, of their sovereign.

August. If Julian had flattered himself that his personal

Licentious connexion with the capital of the East would be

ofX^- productive of mutual satisfaction to the prince and

tfodfAn" People, ne ma(ie a very false estimate of his own

character, and of the manners of Antioch. The

warmth of the climate disposed the natives to the

most intemperate enjoyment of tranquillity and opu­

lence; and the lively licentiousness of the Greeks

was blended with the hereditary softness of the Sy­

rians. Fashion was the only law, pleasure the only

pursuit, and the splendour of dress and furniture

was the only distinction of the citizens of Antioch.

The arts of luxury were honoured; the serious and

manly virtues were the subject of ridicule; and the

contempt for female modesty and reverent age an­

nounced the universal corruption of the capital of

the East. The love of spectacles was the taste, or

rather passion, of the Syrians: the most skilful artists

were procured from the adjacent cities; a consider­

able share of the revenue was devoted to the public

amusements; and the magnificence of the games of

the theatre and circus was considered as the hap­

piness, and as the glory, of Antioch. The rustic

manners of a prince who disdained such glory, and

was insensible of such happiness, soon disgusted the

delicacy of his subjects: and the effeminate Orientals

could neither imitate,, nor admire, the severe sim­

plicity which Julian always maintained, and some­

times affected. The days of festivity, consecrated

by ancient custom to the honour of the gods, were

the only occasions in which Julian relaxed his philo­

sophic severity; and those festivals were the only

