158 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. from the inroads of the Barbarians, he diligently re-

XVL paired; and seven important posts, between Mentz

and the mouth of the Rhine, are particularly men­

tioned, as having been rebuilt and fortified by the

order of Julian. The vanquished Germans had sub­

mitted to the just but humiliating condition of pre­

paring and conveying the necessary materials. The

active zeal of Julian urged the prosecution of the

work; and such was the spirit which he had diffused

among the troops, that the auxiliaries themselves,

waving their exemption from any duties of fatigue,

contended in the most servile labours with the dili­

gence of the Roman soldiers. It was incumbent on

the Caesar to provide for the subsistence, as well as

for the safety, of the inhabitants and of the garrisons.

The desertion of the former, and the mutiny of the

latter, must have been the fatal and inevitable con­

sequences of famine. The tillage of the provinces

of Gaul had been interrupted by the calamities of

war; but the scanty harvests of the continent were

supplied, by his paternal care, from the plenty of

the adjacent island. Six hundred large barks, framed

in the forest of the Ardennes, made several voyages

to the coast of Britain; and returning from thence

laden with corn, sailed up the Rhine, and distri­

buted their cargoes to the several towns and fortresses

along the banks of the river *. The arms of Julian

had restored a free and secure navigation, which

Constantius had offered to purchase at the expense

of his dignity, and of a tributary present of two

thousand pounds of silver. The emperor parsimo­

niously refused to his soldiers the sums which he

granted with a lavish and trembling hand to the

* We may credit Julian himself, Orat. ad S. P. Q. Atheniensem, p. 280. who  
gives a very particular account of the transaction. Zosimus adds two hundred

vessels more, 1. iii. p. 145. If we compute the 600 corn ships of Julian at
only

seventy tons each, they were capable of exporting 120,000 quarters Csee
Arbuth-

not'» Weights and Measures, p. 237.); and the country which could bear so

Urge an exportation muat already have attained an improved state of
agriculture.

