100 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. ignorance of the rest of the assembly, prompted them

xv' to join their voices to the general acclamation. The

guards hastened to take the oath of fidelity; the

gates of the town were shut; and before the dawn of

day, Magnentius became master of the troops and

treasure of the palace and city of Autun. By his

secrecy and diligence he entertained some hopes of

surprising the person of Constans, who was pursuing

in the adjacent forest his favourite amusement of

hunting, or perhaps some pleasures of a more private

and criminal nature. The rapid progress of fame

allowed him, however, an instant for flight, though

the desertion of his soldiers and subjects deprived him

of the power of resistance. Before he could reach a

sea-port in Spain, where he intended to embark, he

was overtaken near Helena, at the foot of the Pyre­

nees, by a party of light cavalry, whose chief, regard­

less of the sanctity of a temple, executed his commis­

sion by the murder of the son of Constantine *.

Magnentius As soon as the death of Constans had decided this

andVetra- . .

nio assume easy but important revolution, the example 01 the

AeDU35o. court of Autun was imitated by the provinces of the

March i. west. The authority of Magnentius was acknow­

ledged through the whole extent of the two great

prefectures of* Gaul and Italy; and the usurper

prepared, by every act of oppression, to collect a

treasure, which might discharge the obligation of an

immense donative, and supply the expenses of a civil

war. The martial countries of Illyricum, from the

Danube to the extremity of Greece, had long obeyed

the government of Vetranio, an aged general, beloved

for the simplicity of his manners, and who had ac­

quired some reputation by his experience and services

in war. Attached by habit, by duty, and by grati­

tude, to the house of Constantine, he immediately

• Zosimus, I. ii. p. 119, 120. Zonaras, torn. ii. 1. xiii. p. 13. and the Ab-

breviators.

