OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 417

provinces of the West, had the merit and the satisfac- <^j>'

tion of boasting, that, except those who had perished

by the chance of war, his triumph was not stained by

the blood of the Romans.

The events of this revolution had passed in such Treaty of

rapid succession, that it would have been impossible fween 6

for Theodosius to march to the relief of his benefac- andX.rheo-

tor, before he received the intelligence of his defeat dosius.

o AD 383

and death. The Eastern emperor was interrupted 387.

by the arrival of the principal chamberlain of Maxi-

mus: and the choice of a venerable old man, for an

office which was usually exercised by eunuchs, an­

nounced to the court of Constantinople the gravity

and temperance of the British usurper. The ambas­

sador condescended to justify, or excuse, the conduct

of his master; and to protest, in specious language,

that the murder of Gratian had been perpetrated with­

out his knowledge or consent, by the precipitate zeal

of the soldiers. But he proceeded, in a firm and

equal tone, to offer Theodosius the alternative of

peace, or war. The speech of the ambassador con­

cluded with a spirited declaration, that although

Maximus, as a Roman, and as the father of his peo­

ple, would choose rather to employ his forces in the

common defence of the republic, he was armed and

prepared, if his friendship should be rejected, to dis­

pute, in a field of battle, the empire of the world.

An immediate and peremptory answer was required;

but it was extremely difficult for Theodosius to satisfy,

on this important occasion, either the feelings of his

own mind, or the expectations of the public. The'

imperious voice of honour and gratitude called aloud

for revenge. From the liberality of Gratian, he had

received the Imperial diadem: his patience would

encourage the odious suspicion, that he was more

deeply sensible of former injuries than of recent ob­

ligations; and if he accepted the friendship, he must

VOL. II. E E

