OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 303

attachment to his benefactor, whose superiority of chap.

genius, as well as of authority, Valens humbly and xx'

cheerfully acknowledged in every action of his life.

Before Valentinian divided the provinces, he re- Jh.e.finalf

formed the administration of the empire. All ranks the eastern

of subjects, who had been injured or oppressed under empirrat6™

the reign of Julian, were invited to support their 364,

public accusations. The silence of mankind attested

the spotless integrity of the praefect Sallust; and his

own pressing solicitations, that he might be permitted

to retire from the business of the state, were rejected

by Valentinian with the most honourable expressions

of friendship and esteem. But among the favourites

of the late emperor, there were many who had abused

his credulity or superstition; and who could no longer

hope to be protected either by favour or justice. The

greater part of the ministers of the. palace, and the go­

vernors of the provinces, were removed from their re­

spective stations; yet the eminent merit of some

officers was distinguished from the obnoxious crowd;

and, notwithstanding the opposite clamours of zeal and

resentment, the whole proceedings of this delicate

inquiry appear to have been conducted with a reason­

able share of wisdom and moderation. The festivity

of a new reign received a short and suspicious inter­

ruption from the sudden illness of the two princes:

but as soon as their health was restored, they left

Constantinople in the beginning of the spring. In

the castle or palace of Mediana, only three miles from

Naissus, they executed the solemn and final division

of the Roman empire. Valentinian bestowed on his

brother the rich prefecture of the East, from the Lower

Danube to the confines of Persia; whilst he reserved

for his immediate government the warlike prefectures

of Illyricum, Italy, and Gaul, from the extremity of

Greece to the Caledonian rampart; and from the

rampart of Caledonia to the foot of Mount Atlas.

