OF THK ROMAN EMPIRE. 467

of the East. But the new magistrate imprudently chap.

departed from the maxims of the court, and of the XX"i'

times; disgraced his benefactor, by the contrast of a

virtuous and temperate administration; and presumed

to refuse an act of injustice, which might have tended

to the profit of the emperor's uncle. Arcadius was

easily persuaded to resent the supposed insult; and

the prefect of the East resolved to execute in person

the cruel vengeance which he meditated against this

ungrateful delegate of his power. He performed

with incessant speed the journey of seven or eight

hundred miles, from Constantinople to Antioch, en­

tered the capital of Syria at the dead of night, and

spread universal consternation among a people, igno­

rant of his design, but not ignorant of his character.

The count of the fifteen provinces of the East was

dragged, like the vilest malefactor, before the ar­

bitrary tribunal of Rufinus. Notwithstanding the

clearest evidence of his integrity, which was not im­

peached even by the voice of an accuser, Lucian was

condemned, almost without a trial, to suffer a cruel

and ignominious punishment. The ministers of the

tyrant, by the order, and in the presence, of their

master, beat him on the neck with leather thongs,

armed at the extremities with lead; and when he

fainted under the violence of the pain, he was re­

moved in a close litter, to conceal his dying agonies

from the eyes of the indignant city. No sooner had

Rufinus perpetrated this inhuman act, the sole object

of his expedition, than he returned, amidst the deep

and silent curses of a trembling people, from Antioch

to Constantinople; and his diligence was accelerated

by the hope of accomplishing, without delay, the

nuptials of his daughter with the emperor of the

Tji , He is dis,

JWlSt. appointed

But Rufinus soon experienced, that a prudent mi- h?the ™ar'

1 nage ot

nister should constantly secure his royal captive by the Arcadius,

. . u u a A, I* 3.95,

H H Z April 2?

