THE DECLINE AND FALL

abundantly supplied with ships, provisions, battering

engines, and military stores. But we may rest assured,

from the love of glory, and contempt of danger, which

formed the character of Julian, that he was not dis­

couraged by any trivial or imaginary obstacles *.—

At the very time when he declined the siege of

Ctesiphon, he rejected, with obstinacy and disdain,

the most flattering offers of a negotiation of peace.

Sapor, who had been so long accustomed to the tardy

ostentation of Constantius, was surprised by the in­

trepid diligence of his successor. As far as the confines

of India and Scythia, the satraps of the distant pro­

vinces were ordered to assemble their troops, and to

march, without delay, to the assistance of their mon­

arch. But their preparations were dilatory, their

motions slow; and before Sapor could lead an army

into the field, he received the melancholy intelligence

of the devastation of Assyria, the ruin of his palaces,

and the slaughter of his bravest troops, who defended

the passage of the Tigris. The pride of royalty was

humbled in the dust; he took his repasts on the

ground; and the disorder of his hair expressed the

grief and anxiety of his mind. Perhaps he would

not have refused to purchase, with one half of his

kingdom, the safety of the remainder; and he would

have gladly subscribed himself, in a treaty of peace,

the faithful and dependent ally of the Roman con­

queror. Under the pretence of private business, a

minister of rank and confidence was secretly de­

spatched to embrace the knees of Hormisdas, and to

request, in the language of a suppliant, that he might

be introduced into the presence of the emperor. The

Sassanian prince, whether he listened to the voice of

* Civitas inexpugnabilis, facinus audax et importunum. Ammianus, xxiv.  
7. His fellow,soldier, Eutropius, turns aside from the difficulty, Assyriamque

populatiis, castra apud Ctcsiphontem stativa aliquandiu habuit: remeansque

victor, 4c. x. 16. Zosimus is artful or ignorant, and Socrates inaccurate.

