OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 177

whom he had preserved in his infancy, when he was chap.

left a helpless orphan; "An orphan!" interrupted XVIL

Julian, who justified his cause by indulging his pas­

sions; "does the assassin of my family reproach me

"that I was left an orphan? He urges me to re-

"venge those injuries which I have long studied to

"forget." The assembly was dismissed; and Leonas,

who, with some difficulty, had been protected from

the popular fury, was sent back to his master, with

an epistle, in which Julian expressed, in a strain of

the most vehement eloquence, the sentiments of con­

tempt, of hatred, and of resentment, which had been

suppressed and embittered by the dissimulation of

twenty years. After this message, which might be

considered as a signal of irreconcilable war, Julian,

who some weeks before had celebrated the Christian

festival of the Epiphany, made a public declaration,

that he committed the care of his safety to the im­

mortal gods; and thus publicly renounced the re­

ligion, as well as the friendship, of Constantius *.

The situation of Julian required a vigorous and Julian Pre-

immediate resolution. He had discovered, from in- attack Con-

tercepted letters, that his adversary, sacrificing thestantlus,

interest of the state to that of the monarch, had again

excited the Barbarians to invade the provinces of the

West. The position of two magazines, one of them

collected on the banks of the lake of Constance, the

other formed at the foot of the Cottian Alps, seemed

to indicate the march of two armies; and the size of

those magazines, each of which consisted of six hun­

dred thousand quarters of wheat, or rather flour, was

a threatening evidence of the strength and numbers

of the enemy, who prepared to surround him. But

* The public and secret negotiations between Constantius and Julian must be  
extracted, with sorne caution, from Julian himself (Orat. ad S. P. Q. Athen.

p. 286 ). Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 51. p. 276.), Ammianus (xx. 9.), Zosimus

U, iii. p. 154.), and even Zonaras (torn. ii. 1. xiii. p. 20, 21, 22.), who,
on this oc­

casion, appears to have possessed and used some valuable materials.

VOL. II. N

