OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 459

infantry was invariably covered with defensive armour, chap.

from the foundation of the city, to the reign of the XXIL

emperor Gratian. The relaxation of discipline, and

the disuse of exercise, rendered the soldiers less able,

and less willing, to support the fatigues of the service;

they complained of the weight of the armour, which

they seldom wore; and they successively obtained the

permission of laying aside both their cuirasses and

their helmets. The heavy weapons of their ancestors,

the short sword, and the formidable pilum, which had

subdued the world, insensibly dropped from their

feeble hands. As the use of the shield is incom­

patible with that of the bow, they reluctantly marched

into the field; condemned to suffer, either the pain

of wounds, or the ignominy of flight, and always dis­

posed to prefer the more shameful alternative. The

cavalry of the Goths, the Huns, and the Alani, had

felt the benefits, and adopted the use, of defensive

armour; and as they excelled in the management of

missile weapons, they easily overwhelmed the naked

and trembling legions, whose heads and breasts were

exposed, without defence, to the arrows of the Bar­

barians. The loss of armies, the destruction of cities,

and the dishonour of the Roman name, ineffectually

solicited the successors of Gratian to restore the hel­

mets and cuirasses of the infantry. The enervated

soldiers abandoned their own, and the public de­

fence; and their pusillanimous indolence may be

considered as the immediate cause of the downfal of

the empire*.

* Mr. Gibbon has here interrupted his History by what may properly be styled  
a Dissertation, rather than a Narrative, respecting the fall of paganism, and
the

alterations in the worship of the Christians.

As I have already observed that the History of the Church is not intended to

form a part of the present publication, I shall content myself with stating
the

most material circumstances of a very long chapter, in the few sentences that
are

subjoined.

The fall of paganism, which, with one short interval, had been progressive

from the time of Constantine, was rendered complete during the reign of Theo-

dosius. The worship of Jupiter was condemned at Rome in the year 388, by

the decree of a very large majority of the senate: and the worship of idols,
with

