OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 231

patient of the tedious forms of judicial proceedings, chap.

The enemies of gods and men expired under their xvm,

cruel insults; the lifeless bodies of the archbishop Dec 24.

and his associates were carried in triumph through

the streets on the back of a camel. The remains of

these guilty wretches were thrown into the sea; and

the popular leaders of the tumult declared their reso­

lution to disappoint the devotion of the Christians,

and to intercept the future honours of these martyrs,

who had been punished, like their predecessors, by

the enemies of their religion. The fears of the Pagans

were just, and their precautions ineffectual. The

meritorious death of the archbishop obliterated the

memory of his life. The rival of Athanasius was

dear and sacred to the Arians, and the seeming con­

version of those sectaries introduced his worship into

the bosom of the Catholic church. The odious

stranger, disguising every circumstance of time and and wor-

place, assumed the mask of a martyr, a saint, and ^i^and

a Christian hero; and the infamous George of Cap- martyr.

padocia has been transformed * into the renowned

St. George of England, the patron of arms, of chi­

valry, and of the garter t.

About the same time that Julian was informed of

the tumult of Alexandria, he received intelligence

from Edessa, that the proud and wealthy faction of

the Arians had insulted the weakness of the Valen-

tinians, and committed such disorders as ought not

to be suffered with impunity in a well-regulated state.

Without expecting the slow forms of justice, the

exasperated prince directed his mandate to the ma-

* This transformation is not given as absolutely certain, but as extremely pro­  
bable. See the Longueruana, torn. i. p. 194.

f A curious history of the worship of St. George, from the sixth century

(when he was already revered in Palestine, in Armenia, at Rorne, and at Treves

in Gaul), might be extracted from Dr. Heylin (History of St. George, 2d edi­

tion, London, 1633, in 4to. p. 429.), and the Bollandists (Act. SS. Mens.

April. torn. iii. p. 100—163.). His fame and popularity in Europe, and espe­

cially in England, proceeded from the Crusades.

Q 4

