76 THE DECLINE AND TALL

chap. tine; and persuaded him to suffer his wife, however

Xv' guilty she might appear, to expiate her offences in a

solitary prison. But it seems a superfluous labour to

weigh the propriety, unless we could ascertain the

truth, of this singular event; which is attended with

some circumstances of doubt and perplexity. Those

who have attacked, and those who have defended, the

character of Constantine, have alike disregarded two

very remarkable passages of two orations pronounced

under the succeeding reign. The former celebrates

the virtues, the beauty, and the fortune of the em­

press Fausta, the daughter, wife, sister, and mother

of so many princes. The latter asserts, in explicit

terms, that the mother of the younger Constantine,

who was slain three years after his father's death,

survived to weep over the fate of her son. Notwith-

. standing the positive testimony of several writers of

the Pagan as well as of the Christian religion, there

may still remain some reason to believe, or at least

to suspect, that Fausta escaped the blind and suspi­

cious cruelty of her husband. The deaths of a son,

and of a nephew, with the execution of a great num­

ber of respectable, and perhaps innocent friends, who

were involved in their fall, may be sufficient, however,

to justify the discontent of the Roman people, and to

explain the satirical verses affixed to the palace-gate,

comparing the splendid and bloody reigns of Con-

, stantine and Nero.

The «>m By the death of Crispus, the inheritance of the

phews of empire seemed to devolve on the three sons of Fausta,

Constantine. wliQ ^een airea(jy mentioned under the names

of Constantine, of Constantius, and of Constans.

These young princes were successively invested with

the title of Caesar; and the dates of their promotion

may be referred to the tenth, the twentieth, and the

thirtieth years of the reign of their father. This

conduct, though it tended to multiply the future

