290 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XIX.

Jovian eva­

cuates Ni-

sibis, and

restores the

five pro­

vinces to

the Per­

sian;.

August.

ment that he passed the Tigris, his affectionate sub­

jects were ignorant of the fate and fortunes of their

prince. Their contemplation of fancied triumphs

was disturbed by the melancholy rumour of his death;

and they persisted to doubt, after they could no longer

deny, the truth of that fatal event. The messengers

of Jovian promulgated the specious tale of a prudent

and necessary peace; the voice of fame, louder and

more sincere, revealed the disgrace of the emperor,

and the conditions of the ignominious treaty. The

minds of the people were filled with astonishment and

grief, with indignation and terror, when they were

informed, that the unworthy successor of Julian re­

linquished the five provinces, which had been ac­

quired by the victory of Galerius; and that he

shamefully surrendered to the Barbarians the import­

ant city of Nisibis, the firmest bulwark of the pro­

vinces of the East. The deep and dangerous ques­

tion, how far the public faith should be observed,

when it becomes incompatible with the public safety,

was freely agitated in popular conversation; and some

hopes were entertained, that the emperor would re­

deem his pusillanimous behaviour by a splendid act

of patriotic perfidy. The inflexible spirit of the Ro­

man senate had always disclaimed the unequal con­

ditions which were extorted from the distress of her

captive armies; and, if it were necessary to satisfy

the national honour, by delivering the guilty general

into the hands of the Barbarians, the greatest part

of the subjects of Jovian would have cheerfully ac­

quiesced in the precedent of ancient times.

But the emperor, whatever might be the limits of

his constitutional authority, was the absolute master

of the laws and arms of the state; and the same mo­

tives which had forced him to subscribe, now pressed

him to execute the treaty of peace. He was im­

patient to secure an empire at the expense of a few

