OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 201

taught him to imitate the simple, concise style of chap.

Menelaus, the copiousness of Nestor, whose words XVI1.

descended like the flakes of a winter's snow, or the

pathetic and forcible eloquence of Ulysses. The

functions of a judge, which are sometimes incompati­

ble with those of a prince, were exercised by Julian,

not only as a duty, but as an amusement; and

although he might have trusted the integrity and

discernment of his Praetorian prasfects, he often

placed himself by their side on the seat of judgment.

The acute penetration of his mind was agreeably

occupied in detecting and defeating the chicanery of

the advocates, who laboured to disguise the truth of

facts, and to pervert the sense of the laws. He some­

times forgot the gravity of his station, asked indis­

creet or unseasonable questions, and betrayed, by the

loudness of his voice, and the agitation of his body,

the earnest vehemence with which he maintained his

opinion against the judges, the advocates, and their

clients. But his knowledge of his own temper

prompted him to encourage, and even to solicit, the

reproof of his friends and ministers; and whenever

they ventured to oppose the irregular sallies of his

passions, the spectators could observe the shame, as

well as the gratitude, of their monarch. The decrees

of Julian were almost always founded on the princi­

ples of justice; and he had the firmness to resist the

two most dangerous temptations which assault the

tribunal of a sovereign, under the specious forms of

compassion and equity. He decided the merits of

the cause without weighing the circumstances of the

parties; and the poor, whom he wished to relieve,

were condemned to satisfy the just demands of a

noble and wealthy adversary. He carefully distin­

guished the judge from the legislator*; and though

* Of the laws which Julian enacted in a reign of sixteen months, fifty-four  
have been admitted into the codes ofTheodosius and Justinian. (Gothofred.

