OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 331

tacked the shepherd rather than his flock; and that chap.

they curiously selected the most delicate and brawny XX"

parts both of males and females, which they prepared

for their horrid repasts *. If, in the neighbourhood

of the commercial and literary town of Glasgow, a

race of cannibals has really existed, we may contem­

plate, in the period of the Scottish history, the oppo­

site extremes of savage and civilized life.

Every messenger who escaped across the British Restora-

Channel conveyed the most melancholy and alarming Britain by

tidings to the ears of Valentinian; and the emperor Theodo-

was soon informed, that the two military commanders a. d. 367

of the province had been surprised and cut off by the — 7°*

Barbarians. Severus, count of the domestics, was

hastily despatched, and as suddenly recalled, by the

court of Treves. The representations of Jovinus

served only to indicate the greatness of the evil; and,

after a long and serious consultation, the defence, or

rather the recovery, of Britain, was intrusted to the

abilities of the brave Theodosius. The exploits of

that general, the father of a line of emperors, have

been celebrated, with peculiar complacency, by the

writers of the age: but his real merit deserved their

applause; and his nomination was received, by the

army and province, as a sure presage of approaching

victory. He seized the favourable moment of navi­

gation, and securely landed the numerous and veteran

bands of the Heruli and Batavians, the Jovians and

the Victors. In his march from Sandwich to Lon­

don, Theodosius defeated several parties of the Bar­

barians, released a multitude of captives, and, after

distributing to his soldiers a small portion of the

spoil, established the fame of disinterested justice, by

* Cum ipse adolescentulus in Gallia viderim Attacottos (or Scotos"* gentem Bri-  
tannicam humanis vesci carnibus; et cum per silvas procorum greges, et armen-

torum pecudumque reperiant, pastorum nates et feminarum papilla) solere ab-

scindere ; ethas solas ciborum delicias arbitrari. Such is the evidence of
Jeiom

(torn. ii. p. 75)j whose veracity I find no reason to question.

