404 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. "petual concourse of distant nations, and the arms

xxi. « an(l discipline Gf the troops. Indeed (continued

"Athanaric), the emperor of the Romans is a god

"upon earth; and the presumptuous man, who dares

"to lift his hand against him, is guilty of his own

"blood." The Gothic king did not long enjoy this

splendid and honourable reception; and, as temper­

ance was not the virtue of his nation, it may justly

be suspected, that his mortal disease was contracted

amidst the pleasures of the Imperial banquets. But

the policy of Theodosius derived more solid benefit

from the death, than he could have expected from

the most faithful services, of his ally. The funeral of

Athanaric was performed with solemn rites in the

capital of the East; a stately monument was erected

to his memory; and his whole army, won by the

liberal courtesy, and decent grief, of Theodosius,

inlisted under the standard of the Roman empire*.

The submission of so great a body of the Visigoths

was productive of the most salutary consequences;

and the mixed influence of force, of reason, and of

corruption, became every day more powerful, and

more extensive. Each independent chieftain hastened

to obtain a separate treaty, from the apprehension that

an obstinate delay might expose him, alone and un­

protected, to the revenge, or justice, of the conqueror.

The general, or rather the final, capitulation of the

Goths, may be dated four years, one month, and

a.d. 382. twenty-five days, after the defeat and death of the

Oct. 3. T 7. 1

emperor Valens.

invasion 'phe provinces of the Danube had been already re-

and defeat L *

of the lieved from the oppressive weight of the Gruthungi,

o/ostrol or Ostrogoths, by the voluntary retreat of Alatheus

386"'Octo, am^ SaPnrax, whose restless spirit had prompted them

ber. to seek new scenes of rapine and glory. Their de-

* Jornandes, c. xxviii. p. 650. Even Zosimus (1. iv. p. 246.) is compelled to  
approve the generosity of Theodosius, so honourable to himself, and so
beneficial

to the public.

