THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Among the ecclesiastics, who illustrated the reign

XXIL of Theodosius, Gregory Nazianzen was distinguished

Ambrose, by the talents of an eloquent preacher; the reputa-

pf Milan, tion of miraculous gifts added weight and dignity to

397! 374_ *ne monastic virtues of Martin of Tours; but the

palm of episcopal vigour and ability was justly claimed

by the intrepid Ambrose. He was descended from

a noble family of Romans; his father had exercised

the important office of Praetorian prefect of Gaul.

Gratian loved and revered him as a father; and the

elaborate treatise on the faith of the Trinity was de­

signed for the instruction of the young prince. After

his tragic death, at a time when the empress Justina

trembled for her own safety, and for that of her son

Valentinian, the archbishop of Milan was despatched,

on two different embassies, to the court of Treves.

He exercised with equal firmness and dexterity the

powers of his spiritual and political characters; and

perhaps contributed, by his authority and eloquence,

to check the ambition of Maximus, and to protect

the peace of Italy. Ambrose had devoted his life,

and his abilities, to the service of the church. Wealth

was the object of his contempt; he had renounced his

private patrimony; and he sold, without hesitation,

the consecrated plate, for the redemption of captives.

The clergy and people of Milan were attached to

their archbishop; and he deserved the esteem, with­

out soliciting the favour, or apprehending the dis­

pleasure, of his feeble sovereigns.

His success- The government of Italy, and of the young: em-

ful opposi- ° 111, IT,

tion to the peror, naturally devolved to his mother Justina, a

Jus'ina, woman of beauty and spirit, but who, in the midst of

April 3^1' an ort;hodox people, had the misfortune of professing

April 10. the Arian heresy, which she endeavoured to instil

into the mind of her son. Justina was persuaded,

that a Roman emperor might claim, in his own do­

