116 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. was not unmindful of his brother Julian, who ob-

XVI' tained the honours of his rank, the appearances of

liberty, and the restitution of an ample patrimony.

Spmdenre ^ne wr*ters tn.e most indulgent to the memory of

of Gaiius. Gallus, and even Julian himself, though he wished

to cast a veil over the frailties of his brother, are

j obliged to confess that the Caesar was incapable of

reigning. Transported from a prison to a throne,

he possessed neither genius nor application, nor do­

cility to compensate for the want of knowledge and

experience. A temper naturally morose and violent,

instead of being corrected, was soured by solitude

and adversity; the remembrance of what he had en­

dured disposed him to retaliation rather than to

sympathy; and the ungoverned sallies of his rage

were often fatal to those who approached his person,

or were subject to his power *. Qmjst^mjuna^ his

wife, is described, not as woman, but as one of the

infernal furies tormented with an insatiate thirst of

human blood. Instead of employing her influence

to insinuate the mild counsels of prudence and hu­

manity, she exasperated the fierce passions of her

husband; and as she retained the vanity, though she

had renounced the gentleness of her sex, a pearl

necklace was esteemed an equivalent price for the

murder of an innocent and virtuous nobleman. The

cruelty of Gallus was sometimes displayed in the un-

dissembled violence of popular or military executions;

and was sometimes disguised by the abuse of law,

and the forms of judicial proceedings. The private

houses of Antioch, and the places of public resort,

were besieged by spies and informers; and the Caesar

himself, concealed in a plebeian habit, very frequently

* See Julian ad S. P. Q. A. p. 271. Je-om. in Chron. Aurelius Victor, Eu.  
tr'opius, x. 14. I shall copy the words of Eutropius, who wrote his abridgment

about fifteen years after the death of Gallus, when there was no longer any
motive

either to flatter or to depreciate his character. "Multis incivilibus gestis
Gallus

"Ca:sar vir natura ferox et ad tyrannidem pronior, si suo jure imperare

"licuisset."

