OF THE ROMAN EMPIBE. 271

Opis *. The distance of the last-mentioned city from CHap.

the Roman camp was not very considerable; and XIX,

Julian must soon have renounced the vain and im­

practicable attempt of forcing upwards a great fleet

against the stream of a rapid river, which in several

places was embarrassed by natural or artificial cata­

racts. The power of sails or oars was insufficient;

it became necessary to tow the ships against the cur­

rent of the river; the strength of twenty thousand

soldiers was exhausted in this tedious and servile

labour; and if the Romans continued to march along

the banks of the Tigris, they could only expect to

return home without achieving any enterprise worthy

of the genius or fortune of their leader. If, on the

contrary, it was advisable to advance into the inland

country, the destruction of the fleet and magazines

was the only measure which could save that valuable

prize from the hands of the numerous and active troops

which might suddenly be poured from the gates of

Ctesiphon. Had the arms of Julian been victorious,

we should now admire the conduct, as well as the

courage, of a hero, who, by depriving his soldiers of

the hopes of a retreat, left them only the alternative

of death or conquest.

The cumbersome train of artillery and waggons, and marches

which retards the operations of a modern army, were j^J?'

in a great measure unknown in the camps of the

Romans t. Yet, in every age, the subsistence of sixty

thousand men must have been one of the most import­

ant cares of a prudent general; and that subsistence

could only be drawn from his own or from the enemy's

country. Had it been possible for Julian to main­

tain a bridge of communication on the Tigris, and to

* Consult Herodotus (1. i. c. 194.), Strabo (l . xvi. p. 1074.), and Tavernier  
(p. i. J. ii. p. 152.).

.f See the judicious reflections of the Author of the Essai sur ]a Tactique,
torn.

ii. p. 287— 353. and the learned remarks of M. Guichardt, Nouveaux Memoires

Militaires, torn. i. p. 351—382. on the baggage and subsistence of the Rornan

armies.

