OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 115

the strong castle of Macellum, near Caesarea. The chap.

treatment which they experienced during a six years XVL

confinement was partly such as they could hope

from a careful guardian, and partly such as they

might dread from a suspicious tyrant*. Their prison

was an ancient palace, the residence of the kings of

Cappadocia; the situation was pleasant, the building

stately, the inclosure spacious. They pursued their

studies, and practised their exercises, under the

tuition of the most skilful masters; and the numerous

household appointed to attend, or rather to guard,

the nephews of Constantine, was not unworthy of

the dignity of their birth. But they could not dis­

guise to themselves that they were deprived of for­

tune, of freedom, and of safety; secluded from the

society of all whom they could trust or esteem, and

condemned to pass their melancholy hours in the

company of slaves, devoted to the commands of a

tyrant, who had already injured them beyond the

hope of reconciliation. At length, however, the

emergencies of the state compelled the emperor, or

rather his eunuchs, to invest Gallus, in the twenty-

fifth year of his age, with the title of Caesar, and to Gaiius de.

cement this political connexion by his marriage with c^st,

the princess Constantina. After a formal interview, |51

in which the two princes mutually engaged their

faith never to undertake any thing to the prejudice

of each other, they repaired without delay to their

respective stations. Constantius continued his march

towards the West, and Gallus fixed his residence at'

Antioch, from whence, with a delegated authority,

he administered the five great dioceses of the eastern

prasfecture. In this fortunate change, the new Caesar

• The most authentic account of the education and adventures of Julian is

contained in the epistle or manifesto which he himself addressed to the senate

and people of Athens. Libanius (Orat , Parentalis), on the side of the Pagans,

and Socrates (1. Hi. c. 1.), on that of the Christians, had preserved several
in­

teresting circumstances.

I 2

