OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 349

were resumed by his successful rival. A chain of chap.

posts and fortifications skilfully disposed by Valens, or xx'

the generals of Valens, resisted their march, prevent­

ed their retreat, and intercepted their subsistence.

The fierceness of the Barbarians was tamed and sus­

pended by hunger; they indignantly threw down

their arms at the feet of the conqueror, who offered

them food and chains: the numerous captives were

distributed in all the cities of the East; and the pro­

vincials, who were soon familiarized with their savage

appearance, ventured, by degrees, to measure their own

strength with these formidable adversaries, whose

name had so long been the object of their terror.

The king of Scythia (and Hermanric alone could

deserve so lofty a title) was grieved and exasperated

by this national calamity. His ambassadors loudly

complained, at the court of Valens, of the infraction

of the ancient and solemn alliance, which had so long

subsisted between the Romans and the Goths. They

alleged, that they had fulfilled the duty of allies, by

assisting the kinsman and successor of the emperor

Julian; they required the immediate restitution of

the noble captives; and they urged a very singular

claim, that the Gothic generals, marching in arms,

and in hostile array, were entitled to the sacred cha­

racter and privileges of ambassadors. The decent,

but peremptory, refusal of these extravagant demands,

was signified to the Barbarians by Victor, master-

general of the cavalry; who expressed, with force

and dignity, the just complaints of the emperor of the

East. The negotiation was interrupted; and the manly

exhortations of Valentinian encouraged his timid bro­

ther to vindicate the insulted majesty of the empire.

The splendour and magnitude of this Gothic war Hostilities

are celebrated by a contemporary historian: but the a. iTai^,

events scarcely deserve the attention of posterity, ex- 3e8,369.

cept as the preliminary steps of the approaching de-

