01? THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 61

could no longer alarm, might sometimes admonish, chap.

the successors of Augustus, that they did not reign XIV"

over a nation of Slaves or Barbarians *.

Thet public establishment of Christianity may here

be considered as one of those important revolutions

which excite the most lively curiosity, and afford the

most valuable instruction. The victories and the

civil policy of Constantine no longer influence the

state of Europe; but a considerable portion of the

globe still retains the impression which it received

from the conversion of that monarch; and the eccle­

siastical institutions of his reign are still connected,

by an indissoluble chain, with the opinions and the

interests of the present generation.

In the consideration of a subject which may be ex­

amined with impartiality, but cannot be viewed with

indifference, a difficulty immediately arises of a very

unexpected nature; that of ascertaining the real and

precise date of the conversion of Constantine. The

eloquent Lactantius, in the midst of his court, seems

impatient to proclaim to the world the glorious exam­

ple of the sovereign of Gaul, who in the first moments

of his reign acknowledged and adored the majesty of

the true and only God. The learned Eusebius has

ascribed the faith of Constantine to the miraculous

sign of the cross which was displayed in the heavens

whilst he meditated and prepared the Italian expedi­

tion; but it is certain that his baptism was delayed

till the moment of his death.

As long as Constantine exercised a limited sove­

reignty over the provinces of Gaul, his Christian

* The great Theodosius, in his judicious advice to his son (Claudian. in iv.  
Consulat. Honorii, 214, &c), distinguishes the station of a Rornan prince from

that of a Parthian monarch. Virtue. was necessary for the one; birth might

suffice for the other.

f The following short sketch of the legal establishment of the Christian reli­

gion in the reign of Constantine is taken from various parts of the 20th
chapter'

of Mr. Gibbon's History, but the words with very few alterations are the words

of the original author.—Editor.

