442 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. dreadful interval of suspense. Every rumour agitated

XXI1' the hopes and fears of the Antiochians, and they

heard with terror, that their sovereign, exasperated

by the insult which had been offered to his own

statue, and more especially to those of his beloved

wife, had resolved to level with the ground the offend­

ing city; and to massacre, without distinction of age

or sex, the criminal inhabitants; many of whom

were actually driven by their apprehensions to seek

a refuge in the mountains of Syria, and the adjacent

March 22. desert. At length, twenty-four days after the sedi­

tion, the general Hellebicus, and Caesarius, master of

the offices, declared the will of the emperor, and the

sentence of Antioch. That proud capital was de­

graded from the rank of a city; and the metropolis

of the East, stripped of its lands, its privileges, and its

revenues, was subjected, under the humiliating deno­

mination of a village, to the jurisdiction of Laodicea.

The Baths, the Circus, and the Theatres, were shut;

and, that every source of plenty and pleasure might

at the same time be intercepted, the distribution of

corn was abolished, by the severe instructions of

Theodosius. His commissioners then proceeded to

inquire into the guilt of individuals; of those who

had perpetrated, and of those who had not prevented,

the destruction of the sacred statues. The tribunal

of Hellebicus and Caesarius, encompassed with armed

soldiers, was erected in the midst of the Forum. The

noblest, and most wealthy, of the citizens of Antioch,

appeared before them in chains; the examination

was assisted by the use of torture, and their sentence

was pronounced or suspended, according to the judg­

ment of these extraordinary magistrates. The houses

of the criminals were exposed to sale, their wives and

children were suddenly reduced from affluence and

luxury to the most abject distress; and a bloody exe­

cution was expected to conclude the horrors. But

