OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 275

from making any long or effectual pursuit; and as chap;

the horsemen of the East were trained to dart their X1X,

javelins, and shoot their arrows, at full speed, and

in every possible direction, the cavalry of Persia was

never more formidable than in the moment of a rapid

and disorderly flight. But the most certain aiid irre­

parable loss of the Romans was that of time. The

hardy veterans, accustomed to the cold climate of

Gaul and Germany, fainted under the sultry heat

of an Assyrian summer; their vigour was exhausted

by the incessant repetition of march and combat;

and the progress of the army was suspended by the

precautions of a slow and dangerous retreat, in the

presence of an active enemy. Every day, every hour,

as the supply diminished, the value and price of sub­

sistence increased in the Roman camp*. Julian,

who always contented himself with such food as a

hungry soldier would have disdained, distributed, for

the use of the troops, the provisions of the Imperial

household, and whatever could be spared from the

sumpter-horses of the tribunes and generals. But

this feeble relief served only to aggravate the sense

of the public distress; and the Romans began to

entertain the most gloomy apprehensions, that before

they could reach the frontiers of the empire, they

should all perish, either by famine, or by the sword

of the Barbarians t.

While Julian struggled with the almost insuper- Julian is

able difficulties of his situation, the silent hours of^nded.

the night were still devoted to study and contem­

plation. Whenever he closed his eyes in short and

interrupted slumbers, his mind was agitated with

* In Mark Antony's retreat, an attic chaenix sold for fifty drachmae, or in  
other words, a pound of flour for twelve or fourteen shillings: barley,bread
was

sold for its weight in silver. It is impossible to peruse the interesting
narrative

of Plutarch (torn. v. p. 102—116.), without perceiving that Mark Antony and

Julian were pursued by the same enemies, and involved in the same distress.

f Ammian. xxiv. 8. xxv. 1. Zosimus, 1. iii. p. 184, 185, 186. Libanius,

Orat , Parent. c. 134, 135. p, 357, 358, 359. The sophist of Antioch appears.

ignorant that the troops were hungry. >

T 2

