OF'THE ROMAN EMP1UE. 307

Imperial city. The usurper improved this unexpected chap.

success with some degree of courage and dexterity. xx

He artfully propagated the rumours and opinions the

most favourable to his interest; while he deluded the

populace by giving audience to the frequent, but

imaginary, ambassadors of distant nations. The large

bodies of troops stationed in the cities of Thrace,

and the fortresses of the Lower Danube, were gra­

dually involved in the guilt of rebellion: and the

Gothic princes consented to supply the sovereign of

Constantinople with the formidable strength of seve­

ral thousand auxiliaries. His generals passed the

Bosphorus, and subdued, without an effort, the un­

armed, but wealthy, provinces of Bithynia and Asia.

After an honourable defence, the city and island of

Cyzicus yielded to his power: the rerfowned legions

of the Jovians and Herculians embraced the cause

of the usurper, whom they were ordered to crush;

and, as the veterans were continually augmented

with new levies, he soon appeared at the head of an

army, whose valour, as well as numbers, were not

unequal to the greatness of the contest. The son of

Hormisdas, a youth of spirit and ability, conde­

scended to draw his sword against the lawful em­

peror of the East; and the Persian prince was im­

mediately invested with the ancient and extraor­

dinary powers of a Roman Proconsul. The alliance

of Faustina, the widow of the emperor Constantius,

who intrusted herself and her daughter to the hands

of the usurper, added dignity and reputation to his

cause. The princess Constantia, who was then about

five years of age, accompanied in a litter the march

of the army. She was shown to the multitude in the

anns of her adopted father; and as often as she

passed through the ranks, the tenderness of the sol-

• diers was inflamed into martial fury*: they recol-

• The infant rebel was afterwards the wife of the emperor Gratian; but she

died young and childless. See Ducange, Fam. Byzantin. p. 48. 09.

x 2

