330 THK DECLINE AND FALL

chap. with robbers *. The oppression of the good, and

'the impunity of the wicked, equally contributed to

diffuse through the island a spirit of discontent and

revolt; and every ambitious subject, every desperate

exile, might entertain a reasonable hope of subvert­

ing the weak and distracted government of Britain.

The hostile tribes of the North, who detested the

pride and power of the King of the World, suspended

their domestic feuds; and the Barbarians of the

land and sea, the Scots, the Picts, and the Saxons,

spread themselves, with rapid and irresistible fury,

from the wall of Antoninus to the shores of Kent.

Every production of art and nature, every object of

convenience or luxury, which they were incapable of

creating by labour, or procuring by trade, was accu­

mulated in the rich and fruitful province of Britain.

A philosopher may deplore the eternal discord of the

human race, but he will confess, that the desire of

spoil is a more rational provocation than the vanity

of conquest. From the age of Constantine to that

of the Plantagenets, this rapacious spirit continued

to instigate the poor and hardy Caledonians; but the

same people, whose generous humanity seems to in­

spire the songs of Ossian, was disgraced by a savage

ignorance of the virtues of peace, and of the laws of

war. Their southern neighbours have felt, and per­

haps exaggerated, the cruel depredations of the Scots

and Picts; and a valiant tribe of Caledonia, the

Attacotti f, the enemies, and afterwards the soldiers,

of Valentinian, are accused, by an eye-witness, of de­

lighting in the taste of human flesh. When they

hunted the woods for prey, it is said, that they at-

• Libanius, Orat. Parentjc. xxxix. p. 264. This curious passage has escaped

. the diligence of our British antiquaries.

f Attacotti bellicosa horninum natio. Ammian. xxvii. 8. Camden (Introduce

p. clii.) has restored their true name in the text of Jerom. The bands of
Atta­

cotti, which Jerom had seen in Gaul, were' afterwards stationed in Italy and
Illy-

ricum (Notitia, S. viii. xxxix. xl.).

