356 . THF. DF.CLINF. AND FALL

chap. their conqueror; and, at the earnest persuasion of

xx" Equitius, their ambassadors were introduced into the

Imperial council. They approached the throne with

bended bodies, and dejected countenances; and,

without daring to complain of the murder of their

king, they affirmed, with solemn oaths, that the late

invasion was the crime of some irregular robbers,

which the public council of the nation condemned

and abhorred. The answer of the emperor left them

but little to hope from his clemency or compassion.

He reviled, in the most intemperate language, their

baseness, their ingratitude, their insolence. His

eyes, his voice, his colour, his gestures, expressed the

violence of his ungoverned fury; and, while his whole

frame was agitated with convulsive passion, a large

blood-vessel suddenly burst in his body; and Valen-

tinian fell speechless into the arms of his attendants.

Their pious care immediately concealed his situation

from the crowd: but, in a few minutes, the emperor

and death, of the West expired in an agony of pain, retaining

tlnian!en* ms senses till the last; and struggling, without suc-

Nov>i776' cess' t0 declare n's intentions to the generals and

ministers, who surrounded the royal couch. Valen-

tinian was about fifty-four years of age; and he

wanted only one hundred days to accomplish the

twelve years of his reign *.

The polygamy of Valentinian is seriously attested.

But we may be assured, from the evidence of rea-

tinianii! son, as well as history, that the two marriages of

Valentinian, with Severa, and with Justina, were

successively contracted; and that he used the ancient

permission of divorce, which was still allowed by the

laws, though it was condemned by the church. Severa

was the mother of Gratian, who seemed to unite

The em­

perors

Gratian

and Valen,

• See, on the death of Valentinian, Ammianus (xxx. 6), Zosimus (l . iv. p.

221), Victor (in Epitom.) Socrates (1 . iv. c. 31), and Jerom, (in Chron. p.
187,

and torn. i. p. 26. ad Heliodor.)

