412 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. hopes. His apparent virtues, instead of being the

xx J hardy productions of experience and adversity, were

the premature and artificial fruits of a royal educa­

tion. The anxious tenderness of his father was conti­

nually employed to bestow on him those advantages,

which he might perhaps esteem the more highly, as

he himself had been deprived of them; and the most

skilful masters of every science, and of every art, had

laboured to form the mind and body of the young

prince. The knowledge which they painfully com­

municated was displayed with ostentation, and cele­

brated with lavish praise. His soft and tractable dis­

position received the fair impression of their judicious

precepts, and the absence of passion might easily be

mistaken for the strength of reason. His preceptors

gradually rose to the rank and consequence of mini­

sters of state; and, as they wisely dissembled their

secret authority, he seemed to act with firmness, with

propriety, and with judgment, on the most important

occasions of his life and reign. But the influence of

this elaborate instruction did not penetrate beyond

the surface; and the skilful preceptors, who so accu­

rately guided the steps of their royal pupil, could not

infuse into his feeble and indolent character the

vigorous and independent principle of action, which

renders the laborious pursuit of glory essentially ne­

cessary to the happiness, and almost to the existence,

of the hero. As soon as time and accident had re­

moved those faithful counsellors from the throne, the

emperor of the West insensibly descended to the level

of his natural genius; abandoned the reins of govern­

ment to the ambitious hands which were stretched

forwards to grasp them ; and amused his leisure with

the most frivolous gratifications. A public sale of

favour and injustice was instituted, both in the court,

and in the provinces, by the worthless delegates of

his power. Among the various arts which had exer­

