OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 131

theatre of Titus, the elegant architecture of the chap.

theatre of Pompey and the Temple of Peace, and, XVL

above all, the stately structure of the Forum and

column of Trajan; acknowledging, that the voice

of fame, so prone to invent and to magnify, had

made an inadequate report of the metropolis of the

world. The traveller, who has contemplated the

ruins of ancient Rome, may conceive some imperfect

idea of the sentiments which they must have in­

spired when they reared their heads in the splendour

of unsullied beauty.

The satisfaction which Constantius had received a new

from this journey excited him to the generous emu­

lation of bestowing on the Romans some memorial

of his own gratitude and munificence. His first idea

was to imitate the equestrian and colossal statue

which he had seen in the Forum of Trajan; but

when he had maturely weighed the difficulties of the

execution, he chose rather to embellish the capital

by the gift of an Egyptian obelisk. In a remote but

polished age, which seems to have preceded the in­

vention of alphabetical writing, a great number of

these obelisks had been erected, in the cities of

Thebes and Heliopolis, by the ancient sovereigns of

Egypt, in a just confidence that the simplicity of

their form, and the hardness of their substance, would

resist the injuries of time and violence. Several of

these extraordinary columns had been transported to

Rome by Augustus and his successors, as the most

durable monuments of their power and victory;

but there remained one obelisk, which, from its size

or sanctity, escaped for a long time the rapacious

vanity of the conquerors. It was designed by Con-

stantine to adorn his new city*; and, after being

* Ammian. Marcellin. 1. xvii. c. 4. He gives us a Greek interpretation of the  
hieroglyphics, and his cornmentator Lindenbrogius adds a Latin inscription,

which, in twenty verses of the age of Constantius, contain a short history of
the

obelisk.

K 2

