448 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. punishment. It was sufficient, that the emperor of

XXIL the Romans, stripped of the ensigns of royalty, should

appear in a mournful and suppliant posture; and that,

in the midst of the church of Milan, he should hum­

bly solicit, with sighs and tears, the pardon of his

sins*. In this spiritual cure, Ambrose employed the

various methods of mildness and severity. After a

delay of about eight months, Theodosius was restored

to the communion of the faithful; and the edict,

which interposes a salutary interval of thirty days

between the sentence and the execution, may be ac­

cepted as the worthy fruits of his repentance t. Poste­

rity has applauded the virtuous firmness of the arch­

bishop: and the example of Theodosius may prove

the beneficial influence of those principles, which

could force a monarch, exalted above the apprehen­

sion of human punishment, to respect the laws, and

ministers, of an invisible Judge.

Generosity After the defeat and death of the tyrant of Gaul,

of Theo- . * .'

dosiu». the Roman world was in the possession of Theodosius.

38^—391. He derived from the choice of Gratian his honourable

title to the provinces of the East: he had acquired

the West by the right of conquest; and the three

years which he spent in Italy were usefully employed

to restore the authority of the laws, and to correct

the abuses which had prevailed with impunity under

the usurpation of Maximus, and the minority of Va-

lentinian. The name of Valentinian was regularly

inserted in the public acts: but the tender age, and

doubtful faith, of the son of Justina, appeared to

require the prudent care of an orthodox guardian;

and his specious ambition might have excluded the

unfortunate youth, without a struggle, and almost

• The penance of Theodosius is authenticated by Ambrose (torn. vi. de Obit.

Theodos. c 34. p. 1207.), Augustin. (de Civitat. Dei, v. 26.), and Paulinus
(in

Vit. Ambros. c. 24). Socra'es is ignorant; Sozomen (1. vii. c. 25.) concise;
and

the copious narrative of Theodoret (1. v. c. 18.) must be used with
precaution.

t Codex Theodos. 1. ix. tit. xl. leg. 13.

