440 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Theodosius was hasty and choleric $ and, in a station,

where none could resist, and few would dissuade, the

fatal consequence of his resentment, the humane mon­

arch was justly alarmed by the consciousness of his

infirmity, and of his power. It was the constant

study of his life to suppress, or regulate, the intem­

perate sallies of passion ; and the success of his efforts

enhanced the merit of his clemency: But the pain­

ful virtue which claims the merit of victory is exposed

to the danger of defeat; and the reign of a wise and

merciful prince was polluted by an act of cruelty,

which would stain the annals of Nero or Domitian.

Within the space of three years, the inconsistent hi­

storian of Theodosius must relate the generous pardon

of the citizens of Antioch, and the inhuman massacre

of the people of Thessalonica.

The»edi. The lively impatience of the inhabitants of An-

Antioch, tioch was never satisfied with their own situation, or

A. D. 387. with the character, and conduct, of their successive

sovereigns. The Arian subjects of Theodosius de­

plored the loss of their churches; and, as three rival

bishops disputed the throne of Antioch, the sentence

which decided their pretensions excited the murmurs

of the two unsuccessful congregations. The exigencies

of the Gothic war, and the inevitable expense that

accompanied the conclusion of the peace, had con­

strained the emperor to aggravate the weight of the

public impositions; and the provinces of Asia, as

they had not been involved in the distress, were the

less inclined to contribute to the relief, of Europe.

The auspicious period now approached of the tenth

year of his reign; a festival more grateful to the

soldiers, who received a liberal donative, than to the

subjects, whose voluntary offerings had been long

since converted into an extraordinary and oppressive

• burthen. The edicts of taxation interrupted the re­

pose, and pleasures, of Antioch; and the tribunal of

