OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 313

retreated, with exemplary patience, under a shower chap.

of Persian arrows, till they had clearly acquired a just xx'

title to an honourable and legitimate victory. Yet

these appearances of war insensibly subsided in a vain

and tedious negotiation. The contending parties

supported their claims by mutual reproaches of per­

fidy and ambition; and it should seem that the ori­

ginal treaty was expressed in very obscure terms,

since they were reduced to the necessity of making

their inconclusive appeal to the partial testimony of

the generals of the two nations, who had assisted at

the negotiations*. The invasion of the Goths and

Huns, which soon afterwards shook the foundations

of the Roman empire, exposed the provinces of Asia

to the arms of Sapor. But the declining age, and

perhaps the infirmities, of the monarch, suggested

new maxims of tranquillity and moderation. His

death, which happened in the full maturity of a reign a. d. 380.

of seventy years, changed in a moment the court and

councils of Persia; and their attention was most pro­

bably engaged by domestic troubles, and the distant

efforts of a Carmanian war. The remembrance of The treaty

ancient injuries was lost in the enjoyment of peace. a.d?C384.

The kingdoms of Armenia and Iberia were permitted,

by the mutual, though tacit, consent of both empires,

to resume their doubtful neutrality. In the first years

of the reign of Theodosius, a Persian embassy arrived

at Constantinople, to excuse the unjustifiable mea­

sures of the former reign; and to offer, as the tri­

bute of friendship, or even of respect, a splendid pre­

sent of gems, of silk, and of Indian elephants.

In the general picture of the affairs of the East, Adventures

under the reign of Valens, the adventures of Para king of Ar-

form one of the most striking and singular objects. mema.

The noble youth, by the persuasion of his mother

* Ammianus (xxvii. 12. xxix. 1. xxx. 1, 2.) has described the events, without  
the dales, of the Persian war.

z 4

