Or THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 309

celled all the heroes of the age, attacked with a chap.

small troop a superior body of the rebels. When he XX

beheld the faces of the soldiers who had served under

his banner, he commanded them, with a loud voice,

to seize and deliver up their pretended leader; and

such was the ascendant of his genius, that this ex­

traordinary order was instantly obeyed. Arbetio, a

respectable veteran of the great Constantine, who had

been distinguished by the honours of the consulship,

was persuaded to leave his retirement, and once

more to conduct an army into the field. In the heat

of action, calmly taking off his helmet, he showed

his gray hairs, and venerable countenance; saluted

the soldiers of Procopius by the endearing names

of children and companions, and exhorted them no

longer to support the desperate cause of a contempti­

ble tyrant, but to follow their old commander, who

had so often led them to honour and victory. In the

two engagements of Thyatira and Nacosia, the un­

fortunate Procopius was deserted by his troops,

who were seduced by the instructions and example of

their perfidious officers. After wandering some time

among the woods and mountains of Phrygia, he was

betrayed by his desponding followers, conducted to

the Imperial camp, and immediately beheaded. He

suffered the ordinary fate of an unsuccessful usurper;

but the acts of cruelty which were exercised by the

conqueror, under the forms of legal justice, excited

the pity and indignation of mankind *.

Such indeed are the common and natural fruits of Severe in.

despotism and rebellion. But the inquisition into into the

the crime of magic, which, under the reign of the J^'°at

two brothers, was so rigorously prosecuted both at^™(^nd

, . . A. D. 373.

* The adventures, usurpation, and fall of Procopius, are related, in a regu- £c.  
lar series, by Ammianus (xxvi. 6, 7,8,9, 10.) and Zosimus (l . iv. p.
203—210.)

They often illustrate, and seldom contradict, each other. Themistius (Orat.
viL

p. 91, 92.1 adds some base panegyric; and Eunapius (p. 83, 84.) some ma­

licious satire.

x 3

