OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 173

while he justifies, in some measure, the resentment chap.

and violence of the troops which had extorted his XVIL

reluctant consent. He allows the supremacy of his

brother Constantius; and engages to send him an

annual present of Spanish horses, to recruit his army

with a select number of Barbarian youths, and to

accept from his choice a Praetorian praefect of ap­

proved discretion and fidelity. But he reserves for

himself the nomination of his other civil and mili­

tary officers, with the troops, the revenue, and the

sovereignty of the provinces beyond the Alps. He

admonishes the emperor to consult the dictates of

justice; to distrust the arts of those venal flatterers,

who subsist only by the discord of princes; and to

embrace the offer of a fair and honourable treaty,

equally advantageous to the republic, and to the

house of Constantine. In this negotiation Julian

claimed no more than he already possessed. The

delegated authority which he had long exercised over

the provinces of Gaul, Spain, and Britain, was still

obeyed under a name more independent and august.

The soldiers and the people rejoiced in a revolution

which was not stained even with the blood of the

guilty. Florentius was a fugitive; Lupicinus a pri­

soner. The persons who were disaffected to the new

government were disarmed and secured; and the

vacant offices were distributed, according to the re­

commendation of merit, by a prince who despised

the intrigues of the palace, and the clamours of the

soldiers*.

The negotiations of peace were accompanied and His fourth

and fifth

supported by the most vigorous preparations for war. expedition

The army, which Julian held in readiness for imme- j§[^d 016

diate action, was recruited and augmented by the 360'

disorders of the times. The cruel persecution of the

* See the first transactions of his reign, in Julian ad S. P. Q. Athen. p. 285,  
286. Ammianus, xx. 5. 8. Liban. Orat. Parent. c. 49, 50. p. 273—275.

