58 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. affected by the severity of the law. The honourable

XIv' merchant of Alexandria, who imported the gems and

spices of India, for the use of the western world; the

usurer, who derived from the interest of money a

silent and ignominious profit; the ingenious manu­

facturer, the diligent mechanic, and even the most

obscure retailer of a sequestered village, were obliged

to admit the officers of the revenue into the partner­

ship of their gain: and the sovereign of the Roman

empire, who tolerated the profession, consented to

share the infamous salary of public prostitutes. As

this grpnpra| fav "pon industry was collected every

fourth year, it was styled the Lustral Contribution:

and the historian Zosimus* laments that the approach

of the fatal period was announced by the tears and

terrors of the citizens, who were often compelled by

the impending scourge to embrace the most abhorred

and unnatural methods of procuring the sum at which

their property had been assessed. The testimony of

Zosimus cannot indeed be justified from the charge

of passion and prejudice; but, from the nature of

this tribute, it seems reasonable to conclude that it

was arbitrary in the distribution, and extremely

rigorous in the mode of collecting. The secret

wealth of commerce, and the precarious profits of art

or labour, are susceptible only of a discretionary va­

luation, which is seldom disadvantageous to the in­

terest of the treasury; and as the person of the trader

supplies the want of a visible and permanent security,

the payment of the imposition, which, in the case of

a land-tax, may be obtained by the seizure of pro­

perty, can rarely be extorted by any other means than

those of corporal punishments. The cruel treat­

ment of the insolvent debtors of the state is attested,

* Zosimus, I. ii. p. 115. There is probably as much passion and prejudice  
in the attack of Zosimus, as in the elaborate defence of the memory of Con-

stantine by the zealous Dr. Howell. Hist. of the World, vol. ii. p. 20.

