OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 287

still ignorant of the hasty and tumultuous choice of chap.

the camp beyond the Tigris. In the neighbourhood XIx'

of the same river, at no very considerable distance

from the fatal station of Dura, the ten thousand

Greeks, without generals, or guides, or provisions,

were abandoned, above twelve hundred miles from

their native country, to the resentment of a victori足

ous monarch. The difference of their conduct and

success depended much more on their character than

on their situation. Instead of tamely resigning

themselves to the secret deliberations and private

views of a single person, the united councils of the

Greeks were inspired by the generous enthusiasm of

a popular assembly; where the mind of each citizen

is filled with the love of glory, the pride of freedom,

and the contempt of death. Conscious of their su足

periority over the Barbarians in arms and discipline,

they disdained to yield, they refused to capitulate;

every obstacle was surmounted by their patience,

courage, and military skill; and the memorable re足

treat of the ten thousand exposed and insulted the

weakness of the Persian monarchy*.

As the price of his disgraceful concessions, the He conti-

emperor might perhaps have stipulated, that the camp retreat to

of the hungry Romans should be plentifully supplied; Nlslbls.

and that they should be permitted to pass the Tigris

on the bridge which was constructed by the hands of

the Persians. But, if Jovian presumed to solicit

those equitable terms, they were sternly refused by

the haughty tyrant of the East; whose clemency had

pardoned the invaders of his country. The Saracens

sometimes intercepted the stragglers of the march;

but the generals and troops of Sapor respected

the cessation of arms; and Jovian was suffered to

explore the most convenient place for the passage of

* The Cyroptcdia is vague and languid; the Anabasis circumstantial and ani足  
mated. Such is the eternal difference between fiction and truth.

