OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 453

answer, the ambassadors of Eugenius; and almost chap.

two years were consumed in the preparations of the XXI1' .

civil war.

The industry of the two master-generals, Stilicho Theodo,

and Timasius, was directed to recruit the numbers, t™Jr£l

'pares lor

and to revive the discipline, of the Roman legions. war,

The formidable troops of Barbarians marched under

the ensigns of their national chieftains. The Iberian,

the Arab, and the Goth, who gazed on each other

"with mutual astonishment, were inlisted in the ser­

vice of the same prince; and the renowned Alaric

acquired, in the school of Theodosius, the knowledge

of the art of war, which he afterwards so fatally

exerted for the destruction of Rome *.

The emperor of the West, or, to speak more pro- hu vic-

perly, his general Arbogastes, was instructed by the e^"^

misconduct and misfortune of Maximus, how dan- a.d. 394.

gerous it might prove to extend the line of defence Sept , 6

against a skilful antagonist, who was free to press, or

to suspend, to contract, or to multiply, his various

methods of attack. Arbogastes fixed his station on

the confines of Italy: the troops of Theodosius were

permitted to occupy, without resistance, the provinces

of Pannonia, as far as the foot of the Julian Alps; and

even the passages of the mountains were negligently,

or perhaps artfully, abandoned to the bold invader.

He descended from the hills, and beheld, with some

astonishment, the formidable camp of the Gauls and

Germans, that covered with arms and tents the open

country, which extends to the walls of Aquileia, and

the banks of the Frigidus, or Cold River. This nar­

row theatre of the war, circumscribed by the Alps and

the Hadriatic, did not allow much room for the ope­

rations of military skill; the spirit of Arbogastes

would have disdained a pardon; his guilt extinguished

* Zosimus, 1. iv. p. 280. Socrates, 1. vii. 10. Alaric himself (de Bell.  
Getico, 524.) dwell* with more complacency on his early exploits against the

Romans.

G G 3

