86 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the claims of the senate and people of ancient Rome,

xv" the corpse of the deceased emperor, according to his

last request, was transported to the city, which was

destined to preserve the name and memory of its

founder. The body of Constantine, adorned with

the vain symbols of greatness, the purple and diadem,

was deposited on a golden bed in one of the apart足

ments of the palace, which for that purpose had been

splendidly furnished and illuminated. The forms of

the court were strictly maintained. Every day, at

the appointed hours, the principal officers of the

state, the army, and the household, approaching the

person of their sovereign with bended knees and a

composed countenance, offered their respectful ho足

mage as seriously as if he had been still alive. From

motives of policy, this theatrical representation was

for some time continued; nor could flattery neglect

the opportunity of remarking that Constantine alone,

by the peculiar indulgence of heaven, had reigned

after his death *.

Factions of But this reign could subsist only in empty pa足

geantry; and it was soon discovered that the will of

the most absolute monarch is seldom obeyed, when

his subjects have no longer any thing to hope from

his favour, or to dread from his resentment. The

same ministers and generals who bowed with such

reverential awe before the inanimate corpse of their

deceased sovereign, were engaged in secret consulta足

tions to exclude his two nephews, Dalmatius and

Hannibalianus, from the share which he had assigned

them in the succession of the empire. We are too

imperfectly acquainted with the court of Constantine

to form any judgment of the real motives which in-

. * Funus relatum in urbem sui nominis, quod sane P. R. aegerrime tulit.

Aurelius Victor. Constantine had prepared for himself a stately tomb in the

church of the Holy Apostles. Eusebius, t iv. c. 60. The best, and indeed
almost

the only account of the sickness, death, and funeral of Constantine, is
contained

in the fourth book of his Life, by Eusebius.

