392 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Cxxl" one oftne gates by a party of Saracens, who had

been fortunately engaged in the service of Valens.

The cavalry of Scythia was forced to yield to the ad­

mirable swiftness and spirit of the Arabian horses;

their riders were skilled in the evolutions of irregular

war; and the Northern Barbarians were astonished

and dismayed by the inhuman ferocity of the Bar­

barians of the South. A Gothic soldier was slain by

the dagger of an Arab; and the hairy naked savage,

applying his lips to the wound, expressed a horrid

delight, while he sucked the blood of his vanquished

enemy. The army of the Goths, laden with the

spoils of the wealthy suburbs, and the adjacent terri­

tory, slowly moved, from the Bosphorus, to the

mountains which form the western boundary of

Thrace. The important pass of Succi was betrayed

by the fear, or the misconduct, of Maurus; and the

Barbarians, who no longer had any resistance to ap­

prehend from the scattered and vanquished troops of

the East, spread themselves over the face of a fertile

and cultivated country, as far as the confines of Italy,

and the Hadriatic Sea *.

Theythe" ^e Romans' wno so coolly, and so concisely, men-

Roman tion the acts of justice which were exercised by the

a°d!1378, legions, reserve their compassion, and their eloquence,

379" for their own sufferings, when the provinces were in­

vaded, and desolated, by the arms of the successful

Barbarians. The simple circumstantial narrative (did

such a narrative exist) of the ruin of a single town,

of the misfortunes of a single family, might exhibit

an interesting and instructive picture of human man­

ners: but the tedious repetition of vague and decla­

matory complaints would fatigue the attention of the

most patient reader.

• The series of events may still be traced in the last pages of Ammianus

(xxxi. 15, 16.), Zosiirms (1. iv. p. 227. 231.), whom we are now reduced to

cherish, misplaces the sally of the Arabs before the death of Valens. Eunapius

{in Excerpt. Legation. p. 20.) praises the fertility of Thrace, Macedonia, &c.

