68 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. He loved glory, as the reward, perhaps as the mo-

Xv' tive, of his labours. The boundless ambition, which,

from the moment of his accepting the purple at

York, appears as the ruling passion of his soul, may

be justified by the dangers of his own situation, by

the character of his rivals, by the consciousness of

superior merit, and by the prospect that his success

would enable him to restore peace and order to the

distracted empire. In his civil wars against Maxen-

tius and Licinius, he had engaged on his side the

inclinations of the people, who compared the un-

dissembled vices of those tyrants, with the spirit of

wisdom and justice which seemed to direct the ge­

neral tenor of the administration of Constantine*.

His vices. Had Constantine fallen on the banks of the Tyber,

or even in the plains of Hadrianople, such is the

character which, with a few exceptions, he might

have transmitted to posterity. But the conclusion

, of his reign (according to the moderate and indeed

tender sentence of a writer of the same age) degraded

him from the rank which he had acquired among

the most deserving of the Roman princes. In the

life of Augustus, we behold the tyrant of the re­

public, converted, almost by imperceptible degrees,

into the father of his country and of human kind.

In that of Constantine, we may contemplate a hero,

who had so long inspired his subjects with love, and

his enemies with terror, degenerating into a cruel

and dissolute monarch, corrupted by his fortune, or

raised by conquest above the necessity of dissimula-

A. D. tion. The general peace which he maintained during

323—337. ^e lasj. fourteen years 0f \x[s reign was a period of

apparent splendour rather than of real prosperity;

and the old age of Constantine was disgraced by the

• The virtues of Constantine are collected for the most part frorn Eutropius,

and the younger Victor, two sincere pagans.1 who wrote ,after the extinction
of

his family. Even Zosimus, and the Emperor Julian, acknowledge his personal

courage and military achievements.

