OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 437

the feeble emotion of involuntary pity was checked chap.

by his regard for public justice, and the memory of XX1L

Gratian; and he abandoned the victim to the pious

zeal of the soldiers, who drew him out of the Imperial

presence, and instantly separated his head from his

body. The intelligence of his defeat and death was

received with sincere, or well-dissembled, joy: his

son Victor, on whom he had conferred the title of

Augustus, died by the order, perhaps by the hand,

of the bold Arbogastes; and all the military plans of

Theodosius were successfully executed. When he

had thus terminated the civil war, with less difficulty.

and bloodshed than he might naturally expect, he

employed the winter months of his residence at Milan

to restore the state.of the afflicted provinces; and

early in the spring he made, after the example of

Constantine and Constantius, his triumphal entry

into the ancient capital of the Roman empire.

The orator, who may be silent without danger, virtues of

may praise without difficulty, and without reluctance; Theodoslus,

and posterity will confess, that the character of Theo­

dosius might furnish the subject of a sincere and

ample panegyric. The wisdom of his laws, and the

success of his arms, rendered his administration re­

spectable in the eyes both of his subjects and of his

enemies. He loved and practised the virtues of do­

mestic life. Theodosius was chaste and temperate;

he enjoyed, without excess, the sensual and social

pleasures of the table ; and the warmth of his amorous

passions was never diverted from their lawful objects.

The proud titles of Imperial greatness were adorned

by the tender names of a faithful husband, an indul­

gent father; his uncle was raised, by his affectionate

esteem, to the rank of a second parent: Theodosius

embraced, as his own, the children of his brother and

sister; and the expressions of his regard were ex­

tended to the most distant and obscure branches of

F F 3

