OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 97

waters. The elephants, made furious by their wounds, chap.

increased the disorder, and trampled down thousands Xv'

of the Persian archers. The Great King, who, from

an exalted throne, beheld the misfortunes of his

arms, sounded, with reluctant indignation, the signal

of the retreat, and suspended for some hours the pro足

secution of the attack. But the vigilant citizens im足

proved the opportunity of the night; and the return

of day discovered a new wall of six feet in height,

rising every moment to fill up the interval of the

breach. Notwithstanding the disappointment of his

hopes, and the loss of more than twenty thousand

men, Sapor still pressed the reduction of Nisibis, with

an obstinate firmness, which could have yielded only

to the necessity of defending the eastern provinces of

Persia against a formidable invasion of the Massagetae.

Alarmed by this intelligence, he hastily relinquished

the siege, and marched with rapid diligence from the

banks of the Tigris to those of the Oxus. The dan足

ger and difficulties of the Scythian war engaged him

soon afterwards to conclude, or at least to observe, a

truce with the Roman emperor, which was equally

grateful to both princes; as Constantius himself,

after the deaths of his two brothers, was involved, by

the revolutions of the west, in a civil contest, which

required and seemed to exceed the most vigorous

exertion of his undivided strength.

After the partition of the empire, three years had civil war,

scarcely elapsed before the sons of Constantine seemed S.nslantine!

impatient to convince mankind that they were in- AIa^j)340,

capable of contenting themselves with the dominions

which they were unqualified to govern. The eldest

of those princes soon complained, that he was de足

frauded of his just proportion of the spoils of their

murdered kinsmen ; and though he might yield to the

superior guilt and merit of Constantius, he exacted

from Constans the cession of the African provinces,

VOL. II. H

