OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

petitors, the one of whom had expelled, and the chap.

other had invited, the Barbarians *. Julian, whose xvii'

mind was deeply wounded by the reproach of ingra­

titude, aspired to maintain, by argument as well as

by arms, the superior merits of his cause; and to

excel, not only in the arts of war, but in those of com­

position. His epistle to the senate and people of

Athens t seems to have been dictated by an elegant

enthusiasm, which prompted him to submit his ac­

tions and his motives to the degenerate Athenians of

his own times, with the same humble deference, as if

he had been pleading in the days of Aristides, before

the tribunal of the Areopagus. His application to

the senate of Rome, which was still permitted to be­

stow the titles of Imperial power, was agreeable to

the forms of the expiring republic. An assembly

was summoned by Tertullus, praefect of the city; the

epistle of Julian was read; and as he appeared to be

master of Italy, his claims were admitted without a

dissenting voice. His oblique censure of the innova­

tions of Constantine, and his passionate invective

against the vices of Constantius, were heard with less

satisfaction: and the senate, as if Julian had been

present, unanimously exclaimed, "Respect, we be-

"seech you, the author of your own fortune." An

artful expression, which, according to the chance of

war, might be differently explained; as a manly re­

proof of the ingratitude of the usurper, or as a

* Julian (ad S. P. Q. Athen. p. 286.) positively asserts, that he intercepted  
the letters of Constantius to the Barbarians: and Libanius as positively
affirms,

that he read them on his march to the troops and the cities. Yet Ammianug

(xxi. 4.) expresses himself with cool and candid hesitation, si mmce soHus ad-

mittenda est fides. He specifies, however, an intercepted letter frorn
Vadomair

to Constantius, which supposes an intimate correspondence between them:

"Caesar tuus disciplinam non habet,"

f Zosimus mentions his epistles to the Athenians, the Corinthians, and the

Lacedaemonians. The substance was probably the same, though the address was

properly varied. The epistle to the Athenians is still extant (p. 268—287.),

and has afforded much valuable information. It deserves the praises of the
Abbe

de la Bleterie (Pref. a l'Histoire de Jovien, p. 24, 25.), and is one of the
best

manifestos to be found in any language.

N 4

