OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Ill

all who abandoned the standard of rebellion, avowed chap.

XV

his inflexible resolution to inflict a just punishment |_

on the crimes of an assassin, whom he prepared to

overwhelm on every side by the effort of his victo­

rious arms. An Imperial fleet acquired the easy pos­

session of Africa and Spain, confirmed the wavering

faith of the Moorish nations, and landed a con­

siderable force, which passed the Pyrenees, and ad­

vanced towards Lyons, the last and fatal station of

Magnentius. The temper of the tyrant, which was

never inclined to clemency, was urged by distress to

exercise every act of oppression which could extort

an immediate supply from the cities of Gaul. Their

patience was at length exhausted; and Treves, the

seat of Praetorian government, gave the signal of

revolt, by shutting her gates against Decentius, who

had been raised by his brother to the rank either of

Caesar or of Augustus*. From Treves, Decentius

was obliged to retire to Sens, where he was soon

surrounded by an army of Germans, whom the per­

nicious arts of Constantius had introduced into the

civil dissensions of Rome. In the meantime, the

Imperial troops forced the passages of the Cottian

Alps, and in the bloody combat of Mount Seleucus

irrevocably fixed the title of rebels on the party of

Magnentius. He was unable to bring another army

into the field; the fidelity of his guards was cor­

rupted; and when he appeared in public to animate

them by his exhortations, he was saluted with an

unanimous shout of " Long live the emperor Con-

"^stantius!" The tyrant, who perceived that they

were preparing to deserve pardon and rewards by

the sacrifice of the most obnoxious criminal, pre­

vented their design by falling on his sword t; a

death more easy and more honourable than he could

* See Tillemont, Hist. des Empereurs, torn. iv. p. 757.  
f Julian, Orat. i. p. 40. Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 134. Socrates, 1. ii. c. 32. So-

zornen, 1. iv. c. 7,

