THE DECLINE AND FALL

the Seine, was originally confined to the small island

in the midst of the river, from whence the inhabit­

ants derived a supply of pure and salubrious water.

The river bathed the foot of the walls; and the

town was accessible only by two wooden bridges. A

forest overspread the northern side of the Seine;

but on the south, the ground, which now bears the

name of the university, was insensibly covered with

houses, and adorned with a palace and amphitheatre,

baths, an aqueduct, and a field of Mars for the

exercise of the Roman troops. The severity of the

climate was tempered by the neighbourhood of the

ocean; and with some precautions, which experience

had taught, the vine and fig-tree were successfully

cultivated. But, in remarkable winters, the Seine

was deeply frozen; and the huge pieces of ice that

floated down the stream might be compared, by an

Asiatic, to the blocks of white marble which were

extracted from the quarries of Phrygia. The licen­

tiousness and corruption of Antioch recalled to the

memory of Julian the severe and simple manners of

his beloved Lutetia *; where the amusements of the

theatre were unknown or despised. He indignantly

contrasted the effeminate Syrians with the brave and

honest simplicity of the Gauls, and almost forgave

the intemperance, which was the only stain of the

Celtic character t. If Julian could now revisit the

capital of France, he might converse with men of

science and genius, capable of understanding and of

instructing a disciple of the Greeks; he might ex­

cuse the lively and graceful follies of a nation, whose

martial spirit has never been enervated by the in­

dulgence of luxury; and he must applaud the per­

fection of that inestimable art, which softens and re­

fines and embellishes the intercourse of social life.

* T)?v piXtv AiuxiTiav. Julian. in Misopogon. p. 340. Leucetia, or Lutetia,  
,was the ancient name of the city which, according to the fashion of the
fourth

century, assumed the territorial appellation of Parisii.

f Julian. in Misopogon. p. 359, 360.

