OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 273

the emperor was soon reduced to the scanty stock of chap.

provisions, which continually wasted in his hands.— XIX"

Before they were entirely consumed, he might still

have reached the wealthy and unwarlike cities of Ec- .

batana, or Susa, by the effort of a rapid and well

directed march; but he was deprived of this last

resource by his ignorance of the roads, and by the

perfidy of his guides. The Romans wandered se­

veral days in the country to the eastward of Bagdad;

the Persian deserter, who had artfully led them into

the snare, escaped from their resentment; and his

followers, as soon as they were put to the torture,

confessed the secret of the conspiracy. The visionary

conquests of Hyrcania and India, which had so long

amused, now tormented, the mind of Julian. Con­

scious that his own imprudence was the cause of the

public distress, he anxiously balanced the hopes of

safety or success, without obtaining a satisfactory

answer either from gods or men. At length, as the

only practicable measure, he embraced the resolution

of directing his steps towards the banks of the Ti­

gris, with the design of saving the army by a hasty

march to the confines of Corduene; a fertile and

friendly province, which acknowledged the sovereignty

of Rome. The desponding troops obeyed the signal

of the retreat, only seventy days after they had passed

the Chaboras, with the sanguine expectation of sub- June 1C.

verting the throne of Persia *.

As long as the Romans seemed to advance into the Retreat

A A'

country, their march was observed and insulted from o" the'StresS

a distance, by several bodies of Persian cavalry; who Eoman

showing themselves sometimes in loose, and some­

times in closer order, faintly skirmished with the

advanced guards. These detachments were, however,

* The march of Julian from Ctesiphon is circumstantially, but not clearly,  
described by Ammianus (xxiv. 7, 8.), Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 134. p. 357.),

and Zosimus (1. iii. p. 183.). The two last seem ignorant that their conqueror

was retreating; and Libanius absurdly confines hhn to the banks of the Tigris.

VOL. II. T

