OF THE ItOMAN EMPIRE. 171

action, which might escape the observation, while chap.

they guided, or rather impelled, the steps. of Julian XVI1'

himself. The discontent of the troops was produced

by the malice of his enemies; their tumult was the

natural effect of interest and of passion; and if Julian

had tried to conceal a deep design under the appear­

ances of chance, he must have employed the most

consummate artifice without necessity, and probably

without success. He solemnly declares, in the pre­

sence of Jupiter, of the Sun, of Mars, of Minerva,

and of all the other deities, that till the close of the

evening which preceded his elevation, he was utterly

ignorant of the designs of the soldiers; and it may

seem ungenerous to distrust the honour of a hero,

and the truth of a philosopher. Yet the superstitious

confidence that Constantius was the enemy, and that

he himself was the favourite of the gods, might

prompt him to desire, to solicit, and even to hasten

the auspicious moment of his reign, which was pre­

destined to restore the ancient religion of mankind.

When Julian had received the intelligence of the con­

spiracy, he resigned himself to a short slumber; and

afterwards related to his friends, that he had seen the

Genius of the empire waiting with some impatience

at his door, pressing for admittance, and reproaching

his want of spirit and ambition*. Astonished and

perplexed, he addressed his prayers to the great Jut

piter; who immediately signified, by a clear and

manifest omen, that he should submit to the will of

heaven and of the army. The conduct which dis­

claims the ordinary maxims of reason, excites our

suspicion and eludes our inquiry. Whenever the

* Ammian. xx. 5. with the note of Lindenbrogius on the Genius of the em­  
pire. Julian himself, in a confidential letter to his friend and physician,
Ori-

basius (Epist. xvii. p. 384.), mentions another dream, to which, before the
event,

he gave credit; of a stately tree thrown to the ground, of a small plant
striking a

deep root into the earth. Even in his sleep, the mind of Casar must have been

agitated by the hopes and fears of his fortune. Zosimus (l . iii. p. 155.)
relates a

subsequent dream.

