OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 465

conduct; the enmity of Rufinus might be palliated chap.

by the jealous and unsociable nature of ambition. xxiIL

But he indulged a spirit of revenge, equally repug­

nant to prudence and to justice, when he degraded

their native country pf Lycia, from the rank of Ro­

man provinces; stigmatized a guiltless people with a

mark of ignominy; and declared that the country­

men of Tatian and Proculus should ever remain in­

capable of holding any employment of honour or ad­

vantage, under the Imperial government.

The character of Theodosius imposed on his mi- He oP-

nister the task of hypocrisy, which disguised, and gJJ?"thc

sometimes restrained, the abuse of power; and Ru- a.d. 395.

finus was apprehensive of disturbing the indolent

slumber of a prince, still capable of exerting the abi­

lities, and the virtue, which had raised him to the

throne. But the absence, and soon afterwards the

death of the emperor, confirmed the absolute autho­

rity of Rufinus over the person and dominions of

Arcadius; a feeble youth, whom the imperious pre­

fect considered as his pupil, rather than his sovereign.

Regardless of the public opinion, he indulged his pas­

sions without remorse, and without resistance; and

his malignant and rapacious spirit rejected every pas­

sion that might have contributed to his own glory,

or the happiness of the people. His avarice, which

seems to have prevailed, in his corrupt mind, over

every other sentiment, attracted the wealth of the

East, by the various arts of partial and general ex­

tortion; oppressive taxes, scandalous bribery, im­

moderate fines, unjust confiscations, forced or ficti­

tious testaments, by which the tyrant despoiled of

their lawful inheritance the children of strangers, or

enemies; and the public sale of justice, as well as of

favour, which he instituted in the palace of Constan­

tinople. The ambitious candidate eagerly solicited,

at the expense of the fairest part of his patrimony,

VOL. II. H H

