OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

had extorted from the gods a seeming consent to his

own wishes, and those of the emperor. The journey

of Maximus through the cities of Asia displayed the

triumph of philosophic vanity; and the magistrates

vied with each other in the honourable reception

which they prepared for the friend of their sovereign.

Julian was pronouncing an oration before the senate,

when he was informed of the arrival of Maximus.

The emperor immediately interrupted his discourse,

advanced to meet him, and, after a tender embrace,

conducted him by the hand into the midst of the

assembly; where he publicly acknowledged the be­

nefits which he had derived from the instructions of

the philosopher. Maximus *, who soon acquired the

confidence, and influenced the councils, of Julian,

was insensibly corrupted by the temptations of a

court. His dress became more splendid, his de­

meanour more lofty, and he was exposed, under a

succeeding reign, to a disgraceful inquiry into the

means by which the disciple of Plato had accumu­

lated, in the short duration of his favour, a very

scandalous proportion of wealth. Of the other phi­

losophers and sophists, who were invited to the Im­

perial residence by the choice of Julian, or by the

success of Maximus, few were able to preserve their

innocence, or their reputation. The liberal gifts of

money, lands, and houses, were insufficient to satiate

their rapacious avarice; and the indignation of the

people was justly excited by the remembrance of

their abject poverty and disinterested professions.

The penetration of Julian could not always be de­

ceived: but he was unwilling to despise the charac­

ters of those men whose talents deserved his esteem;

* Eunapius (in Maximo, p. 77, 78, 79, and in Chrysanthio, p. 147, 148.)  
has minutely related these anecdotes, which he conceives to be the most
import­

ant events of the age. Yet he fairly confesses the frailty of Maximns. His re­

ception at Constantinople is described by Libanius (OraL Parent. c, 86, p.
301.)

and Ammianus (xxii. 7.).

p 2

