OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 117

condescended to assume that odious character. Every chap.

apartment of the palace was adorned with the instru- XVf*

ments of death and torture, and a general consterna­

tion was diffused through the capital of Syria. The

'Prince of the East, as if he had been conscious how

much he had to fear, and how little he deserved to

reign, selected for the objects of his resentment, the

provincials accused of some imaginary treason, and

his own courtiers, whom with more reason he sus­

pected of incensing, by their secret correspondence,

the timid and suspicious mind of Constantius. But

he forgot that he was depi,iving himself of his only

support, the affection of the people; whilst he fur­

nished the malice of his enemies with the arms of

truth, and afforded the emperor the fairest pretence

of exacting the forfeit of his purple, and of his life*.

As long as the civil war suspended the fate of the ^s^cre f*

Roman world, Constantius dissembled his knowledge ministers,

of the weak and cruel administration to which hisA* .364,

choice had subjected the East; and the discovery of

some assassins, secretly despatched to Antioch by the

tyrant of Gaul, was employed to convince the public,

that the emperor and the Caesar were united by the

same interest, and pursued by the same enemies f,

But when the victory was decided in favour of Con­

stantius, his dependent colleague became less useful

and less formidable. Every circumstance of his con­

duct was severely and suspiciously examined, and it

was privately resolved, either to deprive Gallus of the

purple, or at least to remove him from the indolent

luxury of Asia to the hardships and dangers of a

* See in Ammianus (1. xiv. c. 1.7.) a very ample detail of the cruelties of  
Gallus. His brother Julian (p. 272.) insinuates, that a secret conspiracy had

been formed against him; and Zosimus names (1. ii. p. 135.) the persons en­

gaged in it; a minister of considerable rank, and two obscure agents, who were

resolved to make their fortune.

f Zonaras, 1. xiiL torn. ii. p. 17, 18. The assassins had seduced a great numr

ber of legionaries; but their designs were discovered and revealed by an old

woman in whose cottage they lodged.

i 3

