THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. removed by his order from the pedestal where it

XVL stood before the Temple of the Sun at Heliopolis,

was floated down the Nile to Alexandria. The

death of Constantine suspended the execution of his

purpose, and this obelisk was destined by his son to

the ancient capital of the empire. A vessel of un­

common strength and capaciousness was provided to'

convey this enormous weight of granite, at least a

hundred and fifteen feet in length, from the banks

of the Nile to those of the Tyber. The obelisk of

Constantius was landed about three miles from the

city, and elevated, by the efforts of art and labour,

in the great Circus of Rome *.

lianand" ^ne departure of Constantius from Rome was

Sarmatian hastened by the alarming intelligence of the distress

ASrb.357, and danger of the Illyrian provinces. The distrac-

358, 359, tions of civil war, and the irreparable loss which the

Roman legions had sustained in the battle of Mursa,

exposed those countries, almost without defence, to

the light cavalry of the Barbarians; and particularly

to the inroads of the Quadi, a fierce and powerful

nation, who seem to have exchanged the institutions

of Germany for the arms and military arts of their

Sarmatian allies f. The garrisons of the frontier

were insufficient to check their progress; and the

indolent monarch was at length compelled to assem­

ble, from the extremities of his dominions, the

flower of the Palatine troops, to take the field in

person, and to employ a whole campaign, with the

preceding autumn and the ensuing spring, in the

serious prosecution of the war. The emperor passed

the Danube on a bridge of boats, cut in pieces all

* SeeDonaL Roma Antiqua. L. iii. c. 14. 1. iv. c. 12. and the learned, though  
confused, Dissertation of Barg:eus on Obelisks, inserted in the fourth volume
of

Graevius's Roman Antiquities, p. 1897—1930. This Dissertation is dedicated

to Pope Sixtus V. who erected the obelisk of Constantius in the square before
the

patriarchal church of St. John Lateran.

.(• The events of this Quadian and Sarmatian war are related by Ammianus,

xvi. 10. xvii. 12, 13. xix. 11.

