OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 419

had exposed hhn to the fatal effects of their resent- chap.

ment. The orthodox bishops bewailed his death, XXIL

and their own irreparable loss; but they were soon Baptism

comforted by the discovery, that Gratian had com- d» S£ts

mitted the sceptre of the East to the hands of a prince ^J^60"

whose humble faith, and fervent zeal, were supported a. d. 38o,

by the spirit and abilities of a more vigorous character.

Among the benefactors of the church, the fame of

Constantine has been rivalled by the glory of Theodo-

sius. If Constantine had the advantage of erecting the

standard of the cross, the emulation of his successor

assumed the merit of subduing the Arian heresy, and

of abolishing the worship of idols in the Roman

world. Theodosius was the first of the emperors

baptised in the true faith of the Trinity. Although

he was born of a Christian family, the maxims, or at

least the practice, of the age, encouraged him to delay

the ceremony of his initiation ; till he was admonished

of the danger of delay, by the serious illness which

threatened his life, towards the end of the first year

of his reign. Before he again took the field against

the Goths, he received the sacrament of baptism from

Acholius, the orthodox bishop of Thessalonica: and,

as the emperor ascended from the holy font, still

glowing with the warm feelings of regeneration, he

dictated a solemn edict, which proclaimed his own

faith, and prescribed the religion of his subjects.

"It is our pleasure (such is the Imperial style) that

"all the nations, which are governed by our clemency

"and moderation, should stedfastly adhere to the

"religion which was taught by St. Peter to the Ro-

"mans; which faithful tradition has preserved; and

"which is now professed by the pontiff Uamasus,

"and by Peter, bishop of Alexandria, a man of apo-

"stolic holiness. According to the discipline of the

"apostles, and the doctrine of the gospel, let us be-

"lieve the sole deity of the Father, the Son, and the

"Holy Ghost; under an equal majesty, and a pious

E E 2

