20 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. manufactures, whatever could interest the public

XIV .

prosperity. was moderated by the authority of the

Praetorian praefects. As the immediate repre­

sentatives of the Imperial majesty, they were em­

powered to explain, to enforce, and on some occasions

to modify, the general edicts by their discretionary

proclamations. They watched over the conduct of

the provincial governors, removed the negligent, and

inflicted punishments on the guilty. From all the

inferior jurisdictions, an appeal in every matter of

importance, either civil or criminal, might be brought

before the tribunal of the praefect: but his sentence

was final and absolute; and the emperors themselves

refused to admit any complaints against the judgment

or the integrity of a magistrate whom they honoured

with such unbounded confidence. His appointments

were suitable to his dignity; and if avarice was his

ruling passion, he enjoyed frequent opportunities of

collecting a rich harvest of fees, of presents, and of

perquisites. Though the emperors no longer dreaded

the ambition of their preefects, they were attentive to

counterbalance the power of this great office by the

uncertainty and shortness of its duration *.

fectsaf*" From their superior importance and dignity, Rome

Comtanld an(^ Constantinople were alone excepted from the

tinopie. jurisdiction of the Praetorian praefects. The immense

size of the city, and the experience of the tardy, in­

effectual operation of the laws, had furnished the

policy of Augustus with a specious pretence for in­

troducing a new magistrate, who alone could restrain

a servile and turbulent populace by the strong arm

of arbitrary power. Valerius Messalla was appointed

the first preefect of Rome, that his reputation might

* For this and the other dignities of the empire, it may be sufficient to lefer  
to the ample commentaries of Pancirolus and Godefroy, who have diligently col­

lected and accurately digested in their proper order all the legal and
historical

materials. From those authors, Dr. Howell (History of the World, vol. ii. p.
24

—77.) had deduced a very distinct abridgement of the state of the Roman

empire.

