OF THE BOMAN EMPIKE. 187

tions of the soldiers, the people, and the senate. chap.

An innumerable multitude pressed around him with XVIL

eager respect; and were perhaps disappointed, when

they beheld the small stature, and simple garb of a

hero, whose unexperienced youth had vanquished the

Barbarians of Germany, and who had now traversed,

in a successful career, the whole continent of Europe,

from the shores of the Atlantic to those of the Bos-

phorus *. A few days afterwards, when the remains

of the deceased emperor were landed in the harbour,

the subjects of Julian applauded the real or affected

humanity of their sovereign. On foot, without his

diadem, and clothed in a mourning habit, he ac足

companied the funeral as far as the church of the

Holy Apostles, where the body was deposited: and

if these marks of respect may be interpreted as a

selfish tribute to the birth and dignity of his Im足

perial kinsman, the tears of Julian professed to the

world, that he had forgot the injuries, and remem足

bered only the obligations which he had received

from Constantius. As soon as the legions of Aqui-

leia were assured of the death of the emperor, they

opened the gates of the city, and, by the sacrifice of

their guilty leaders, obtained an easy pardon from mi is Be-

the prudence or lenity of Julian; who, in the thirty- by^e*18^

second year of his age, acquired the undisputed pos-

session of the Roman empire f.

Philosophy had instructed Julian to compare the His mil

advantages of action and retirement; but the eleva- ment, and

tion of his birth, and the accidents of his life, never pnTate m'

allowed him the freedom of choice. He might per足

haps sincerely have preferred the groves of the aca-

* In describing the triumph of Julian, Ammianus (xxii. 1, 2.) assumes the  
lofty tone of an orator or poet; while Libanius (Orat . Parent , c 56. p.
281.)

sinks to the grave simplicity of an historian.

f The day and year of the birth of Julian are not perfectly ascertained. The

day is probably the sixth of November, and tbe year must be either 331 or 332.

TUlamont, Hist. des Empereurs, torn. iv. p. 693. Ducaage, Fam. Byzantin.

p. 50. I have preferred the earlier date.

