208 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap, /repugnant to the noblest attribute&^Jiuuiauatato'e,

XVIIL / sincenly^and. courage— —

He writes The inclination of Julian might prefer the gods

5L of Homer, and of the Scipios, to the new faith,

°ity, which his uncle had established in the Roman em­

pire; and in which he himself had been sanctified

by the sacrament of baptism. But, as a philosopher,

it was incumbent on him to justify his dissent from

Christianity, which was supported by the number of

its converts, by the chain of prophecy, the splendour

of miracles, and the weight of evidence. The ela­

borate work *, which he composed amidst the pre­

parations of the Persian war, contained the substance

of those arguments which he had long revolved in

his mind. Some fragments have been transcribed

and preserved by his adversary,, the vehement Cyril

of Alexandria; and they exhibit a very singular

mixture of wit and learning, of sophistry and fana­

ticism. The elegance of the style, and the rank of

the author, recommended his writings to the public

attention; and in the impious list of the enemies of

Christianity, the celebrated name of Porphyry was

effaced by the superior merit or reputation of Julian.

The minds of the faithful were either seduced, or

scandalized, or alarmed; and the pagans, who some­

times presumed to engage in the unequal dispute,

derived from the popular work of their Imperial

missionary an inexhaustible supply of fallacious ob­

jections. But in the assiduous prosecution of these

theological studies, the emperor of the Romans im­

bibed the illiberal prejudices and passions of a pole­

mic divine. He contracted an irrevocable obligation

to maintain and propagate his religious opinions;

and whilst he secretly applauded the strength and

dexterity with which he wielded the weapons of con-

* Fabricius (Biblioth. Graec. 1. v. c viii. p. 88—90.) and Lardner (Heathen  
Testimonies, vol. iv. p. 44—47.) have accurately compiled all that can now be

discovered of Julian's work against the Christians.

