28 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. of corn and provisions; the care of the port, of the

XIV' aqueducts, of the common sewers, and of the navi­

gation and bed of the Tyber; the inspection of the

markets, the theatres, and of the private as well as

public works. Their vigilance ensured the three

principal objects of a regular police, safety, plenty,

and cleanliness; and as a proof of the attention of go­

vernment to preserve the splendour and ornaments of

the capital, a particular inspector was appointed for

the statues; the guardian, as it were, of that inani­

mate people, which, according to the extravagant

computation of an old writer, was scarcely inferior in

number to the living inhabitants of Rome. About

thirty years after the foundation of Constantinople,

a similar magistrate was created in that rising metro­

polis, for the same uses, and with the same powers.

A perfect equality was established between the dig­

nity of the two municipal, and that of the four prae­

torian, praefects.

The pro- Those who, in the Imperial hierarchy, were di-

vira-prte- stinguished by the title of Respectable, formed an

fects, &c. intermediate class between the illustrious praefects

and the honourable magistrates of the provinces. In

this class the proconsuls of Asia, Achaia, and Africa,

claimed a pre-eminence, which was yielded to the re­

membrance of their ancient dignity; and the appeal

from their tribunal to that of the praefects was almost

the only mark of their dependence. But the civil

government of the empire was distributed into thir­

teen great dioceses, each of which equalled the just

measure of a powerful kingdom. The first of these

dioceses was subject to the jurisdiction of the count of

the east; and we may convey some idea of the im­

portance and variety of his functions, by observing,

that six hundred apparitors, who would be styled at

present either secretaries, or clerks, or ushers, or

messengers, were employed in his immediate office.

