OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE." 297

a respite of six weeks. The emperor could not sustain chap.

the indiscreet and malicious raillery of the people of XX"

Antioch. He was impatient to possess the palace of

Constantinople; and to prevent the ambition of some

competitor, who might occupy the vacant allegiance

of Europe. But he soon received the grateful intel­

ligence, that his authority was acknowledged from the

Thracian Bosphorus to the Atlantic ocean. By the

first letters which he despatched from the camp of

Mesopotamia, he had delegated the military com­

mand of Gaul and Illyricum to Malarich, a brave and

faithful officer of the nation of the Franks; and to his

father-in-law, count Lucillian, who had formerly di­

stinguished his courage and conduct in the defence of

Nisibis. Malarich had declined an office to which he

thought himself unequal; and Lucillian was massacred

at Rheims, in an accidental mutiny of the Batavian

cohorts. But the moderation of Jovinus, master ge­

neral of the cavalry, who forgave the intention of his

disgrace, soon appeased the tumult, and confirmed

the uncertain minds of the soldiers. The oath of

fidelity was administered, and taken with loyal ac­

clamations; and the deputies of the Western armies

saluted their new sovereign as he descended from

Mount Taurus to the City of Tyana, in Cappadocia.

From Tyana he continued his hasty march to An-

cyra, capital of the province of Galatia; where Jovian

assumed, with his infant son, the name and ensigns

of the consulship. Dadastana, an obscure town, al- a. d. 364.

most at an equal distance between Ancyra and Nice, January l'

was marked for the fatal term of his journey and his

life. After indulging himself with a plentiful, per­

haps an intemperate, supper, he retired to rest; and

the next morning the emperor Jovian was found dead Death of

in his bed. The cause of this sudden death was va- p^iV.

riously understood. By some it was ascribed to the

consequences of an indigestion, occasioned either by

