340 THE DECLINE AND FAtt

chap. or of their pusillanimity. They indulge, like the

xx, rest of mankind, their passions and appetites; and

the adjacent tribes are engaged in frequent acts of

hostility. But their rude ignorance has never invented

any effectual weapons of defence or of destruc­

tion; they appear incapable of forming any extensive

plans of government or conquest; and the obvious

inferiority of their mental faculties has been discovered

and abused by the nations of the temperate zone.

'Sixty thousand blacks are annually embarked from

the coast of Guinea, never to return to their native

country; but they are embarked in chains *: and this

constant emigration, which, in the space of two cen­

turies, might have furnished armies to overrun the

globe, accuses the guilt of Europe, and the weakness

of Africa.

iv. The IV. The ignominious treaty which saved the army

The Per- of Jovian nad been faithfully executed on the side of

"a d*' t'ie ^omans» an^ as *ney ^ad solemnly renounced

365 -378. the sovereignty and alliance of Armenia and Iberia,

those tributary kingdoms were exposed, without pro­

tection, to the arms of the Persian monarcht. Sapor

entered the Armenian territories at the head of a

formidable host of cuirassiers, of archers, and of mer­

cenary foot; but it was the invariable practice of

Sapor to mix war and negotiation, and to consider

falsehood and perjury as the most powerful instru­

ments of regal policy. He affected to praise the

prudent and moderate conduct of the king of Ar­

menia; and the unsuspicious Tiranus was persuaded,

by the repeated assurances of insidious friendship, to

deliver his person into the hands of a faithless and

cruel enemy. In the midst of a splendid entertain­

ment, he was bound in chains of silver, as an honour

due to the blood of the Arsacides; and, after a short

* Histoire Philosophique et Politique, &c. torn. iv. p. 192.

f The evidence of Ammianus is original and decisive (xxvii. 12. J

