OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 107

with the weakness of his reign, and to insult him chap.

by the promise of a pardon, if he would instantly xv"

abdicate the purple. "That he should confide in

"the justice of his cause, and the protection of an

"avenging Deity," was the only answer which honour

permitted the emperor to return. But he was so

sensible of the difficulties of his situation, that he no

longer dared to retaliate the indignity which had

been offered to his representative. The negotiation

of Philip was not, however, ineffectual, since he de­

termined Sylvanus the Frank, a general of merit

and reputation, to desert with a considerable body

of cavalry, a few days before the battle of Mursa.

The city of Mursa, or Essek, celebrated in mo- Battle of

dern times for a bridge of boats five miles in length, A^iassi.

over the river Drave, and the adjacent morasses *, SePt, 28.

has been always considered as a place of importance

in the wars of Hungary. Magnentius directing his

march towards Mursa, set fire to the gates, and, by

a sudden assault, had almost scaled the walls of the

town. The vigilance of the garrison extinguished

the flames; the approach of Constantius left him no

time to continue the operations of the siege; and

the emperor soon removed the only obstacle that

could embarrass his motions, by forcing a body of

troops which had taken post in an adjoining amphi­

theatre. The field of battle round Mursa was a

naked and level plain: on this ground the army of

Constantius formed, with the Drave on their right;

while their left, either from the nature of their dis­

position, or from the superiority of their cavalry,

extended far beyond the right flank of Magnentius t.

The troops on both sides remained under arms in

anxious expectation during the greatest part of the

• This remarkable bridge, which is flanked with towers, and supported on

large wooden piles, was constructed, A. D. 1566, by Sultan Soliman, to facili­

tate the march of his armies into Hungary. See Browne's Travels, and Bus-

ching's System of Geography, vol. ii. p. 90.

f This position, and the subsequent evolutions, are clearly, though conciselyi

described by Julian, Orat. i. p 36.

