386 THE DECLINE AND FAIX

CHAP.

XXI.

Battle of

Hadriano-

ple,

A.D. 378,

Aug. 9th.

rors, of an Imperial army. About the same time,

Count Richomer returned from the West, to announce

the defeat and submission of the Alemanni, to inform

Valens, that his nephew advanced by rapid marches

at the head of the veteran and victorious legions of

Gaul; and to request, in the name of Gratian and

of the republic, that every dangerous and decisive

measure might be suspended, till the junction of the

two emperors should ensure the success of the Gothic

war. But the feeble sovereign of the East was

actuated only by the fatal illusions of pride and jea­

lousy. He disdained the importunate advice; he

rejected the humiliating aid; he secretly compared

the ignominious, or at least the inglorious, period of

his own reign, with the fame of a beardless youth;

and Valens rushed into the field, to erect his ima­

ginary trophy, before the diligence of his colleague

could usurp any share of the triumphs of the day.

On the ninth of August, a day which has deserved

to be marked among the most inauspicious of the

Roman Calendar *, the emperor Valens, leaving,

under a strong guard, his baggage and military trea­

sure, marched from Hadrianople to attack the Goths,

who were encamped about twelve miles from the

city t. By some mistake of the orders, or some ig­

norance of the ground, the right wing, or column of

cavalry, arrived in sight of the enemy, whilst the left

was still at a considerable distance; the soldiers were

compelled, in the sultry heat of summer, to precipi­

tate their pace; and the line of battle was formed

with tedious confusion, and irregular delay. The

* Ammianus (xxxi. 12, 13,) almost alone describes the councils and actions  
which were terminated by the fatal battle of Hadrianople. We might censure

the vices of his style, the disorder and perplexity of his narrative: but we
must

now take leave of this impartial historian; and reproach is silenced by our
regret

for such an irreparable loss.

t The difference of the eight miles of Ammianus, and the twelve of Idatius,

can only embarrass those critics (Valesius ad loc.) who suppose a great army
to

be a mathematical point, without space or dimensions.

