THE DECLINE AND FALL

gloried in the name of their Redeemer, he coun­

tenanced, and perhaps enjoined, the use of the less

honourable appellation of Galileans. He de­

clared, that, by the folly of the Galilaeans, whom he

describes as a sect of fanatics, contemptible to men,

and odious to the gods, the empire had been reduced

to the brink of destruction; and he insinuates in a

public edict, that a frantic patient might sometimes

be cured by salutary violence*. An ungenerous

distinction was admitted into the mind and counsels

of Julian, that, according to the difference of their

religious sentiments, one part of his subjects deserved

his favour and friendship, while the other was entitled

only to the common benefits that his justice could

not refuse to an obedient people t. According to a

principle, pregnant with mischief and oppression,

the emperor transferred, to the pontiffs of his own

religion, the management of the liberal allowances

from the public revenue, which had been granted to

the church by the piety of Constantine and his sons.

The proud system of clerical honours and immunities,

which had been constructed with so much art and

labour, was levelled to the ground; the hopes of

testamentary donations were intercepted by the ri­

gour of the laws; and the priests of the Christian

sect were confounded with the last and most igno­

minious class of the people. But the will of the

legislator was not exempt from prejudice and passion;

and it was the object of the insidious policy of Julian,

to deprive the Christians of all the temporal honours

* Fragment. Julian. p. 888, He derides the /iijiot raXiXawv (Epist. vii.), and  
so far loses sight of the principles of toleration, as to wish (epist,xlii.) J
xo»th;

*f* Ou yap /Ui Qtpts if i x*fiu{ipt* n tK§gup»n  
AvSpotf, 01 XI fttoiffti ave^tvvT a^avtuTOJCtv.

These two lines, which Julian has changed and perverted, in the true spirit of
a

bigot (Epist. xlix.), are taken from the speech of .fiolus, when he refuses to

grant Ulysses a fresh supply of winds (Odyss. x. 73.) Libanius (Orat. Parent.

c. lix. p. '286.) attempts to justify this partial behaviour, by an apology,
in which

persecution peeps through the mask of candour.

