OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 289

devoured; and the desert was strewed with the arms chap.

and baggage of the Roman soldiers, whose tattered XIX,

garments and meagre countenances displayed their

past sufferings, and actual misery. A small convoy

of provisions advanced to meet the army as far as the

castle of Ur; and the supply was the more grateful,

since it declared the fidelity of Sebastian and Proco-

pius. At Thilsaphata *, the emperor most graciously

received the general's of Mesopotamia; and the re­

mains of a once flourishing army at length reposed

themselves under the walls of Nisibis. The mes­

sengers of Jovian had already proclaimed, in the

language of flattery, his election, his treaty, and his

return; and the new prince had taken the most

effectual measures to secure the allegiance of the

armies and provinces of Europe; by placing the mili­

tary command in the hands of those officers, who,

from motives of interest, or inclination, would firmly

support the cause of their benefactor t.

The friends of Julian had confidently announced Universal

the success of his expedition. They entertained a^""^

fond persuasion, that the temples of the gods would treatvof

be enriched with the spoils of the East; that Persia

would be reduced to the humble state of a tributary

province, governed by the laws and magistrates of

Rome; that the Barbarians would adopt the dress,

and manners, and language, of their conquerors;

and that the youth of Ecbatana and Susa would

study the art of rhetoric under Grecian masters t.

The progress of the arms of Julian interrupted his

communication with the empire; and, from the mo-

• M. d'Anville (see his Maps, and l'Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 92, 93.) traces

their march, and assigns the true position of Hatra, Ur, and Thilsaphata.
which

Ammianus has mentioned. He does not cornplain of the Samiel, the deadly hot

wind, which Thevenot (Voyages, part ii. l . i. p. 192.) so much dreaded.

+ The retreat of Jovian is described by Ammianus (xxv. 9.), Libanius (Orat.

Parent. c. 143. p. 3C5.), and Zosimus (1. iii. p. 194.).

f Libanius, Orat. Parent. c. 145. p. 366. Such were the natural hopes and

wishes of a rhetorician.

VOL. II. U

