OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 327

the state of civilized and peaceful servitude: the chap.

rights of savage freedom were contracted to the nar- xx,

row limits of Caledonia. The inhabitants of that

northern region were divided, as early as the reign

of Constantine/ between the two great tribes of the

Scots and of the Picts *, who have since expe­

rienced a very different fortune. The power, and

almost the memory, of the Picts, have been extin­

guished by their successful rivals; and the Scots,

after maintaining for ages the dignity of an inde-

. pendent kingdom, have multiplied, by an equal and

voluntary union, the honours of the English name."

The hand of nature had contributed to mark the an­

cient distinction of the Scots and Picts. The former

were the men of the hills, and the latter those of the

plain. The eastern coast of Caledonia may be con­

sidered as a level and fertile country, which, even in a

rude state of tillage, was capable of producing a con­

siderable quantity of corn; and the epithet of cruit-

nich, or wheat-eaters, expressed the contempt, or

envy, of the carnivorous highlander. The cultiva­

tion of the earth might introduce a moi*e accurate

separation of property, and the habits of a sedentary

life; but the love of arms and rapine was still the

ruling passion of the Picts; and their warriors, who

stripped themselves for a day of battle, were distin­

guished, in the eyes of the Romans, by the strange

fashion of painting their naked bodies with gaudy

colours and fantastic figures. The western part of

Caledonia irregularly rises' into wild and barren hills,

which scarcely repay the toil of the husbandman,

* In the dark and doubtful paths of Caledonian antiquity, I have chosen for  
my guides two learned and ingenious Highlanders, whom their birth and educa­

tion had peculiarly qualified for that office. See Critical Dissertations on
the Ori­

gin, Antiquities, &c of the Caledonians, by Dr. John Macpherson, London,

1768, in 4to.; and Introduction to the History of Great Britain and Ireland,
by

James Macpherson, Esq. London, 1773, in 4to. third edit. Dr. Macpherson was

a minister in the isle of Skye; and it is a circumstance honourable for the
present

age, that a work replete with erudition and criticism should have been
composed

in tiie most remote of the Hebrides.

y 4

