OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 43

fourth to papers. and orders of a miscellaneous kind. chap.

Each of these was directed by an inferior master XIV'

of respectable dignity, and the whole business was

despatched by a hundred and forty-eight secretaries,

chosen for the most part from the profession of the

law, on account of the variety of abstracts of re­

ports and references which frequently occurred in the

exercise of their several functions. From a con­

descension which in former ages would # have been

esteemed unworthy of the Roman majesty, a par­

ticular secretary was allowed for the Greek language;

and interpreters were appointed to receive the am­

bassadors of the Barbarians: but the department of

foreign affairs, which constitutes so essential a part of

modern policy, seldom diverted the attention of the

master of the offices. His mind was more seriously

engaged by the general direction of the posts and

arsenals of the empire. There were thirty-four cities,

fifteen in the east, and nineteen in the west, in which

regular companies of workmen were perpetually em­

ployed in fabricating defensive armour, offensive

weapons of all sorts, and military engines, which

were deposited in the arsenals, and occasionally de­

livered for the service of the troops. 3. In the The qua-

course of nine centuries, the office of quaestor hadstOT'

experienced a very singular revolution. In the in­

fancy of Rome, two inferior magistrates were annually

elected by the people, to relieve the consuls from

the invidious management of the public treasure; a

similar assistant was granted to every proconsul, and

to every praetor, who exercised a military or pro­

vincial command; with the extent of conquest, the

two quaestors were gradually multiplied to the num­

ber of four, of eight, of twenty, and, for a short

time, perhaps, of forty; and the noblest citizens

ambitiously solicited an office which gave them a seat

in the senate, and a just hope of obtaining the honours

