170 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. not to sully the fame of their immortal victories;

XV1L and ventured to promise, that if they would imme­

diately return to their allegiance, he would under­

take to obtain from the emperor, not only a free and

gracious pardon, but even the revocation of the orders

which had excited their resentment. But the sol­

diers, who were conscious of their guilt, chose rather

to depend on the gratitude of Julian than on the

clemency of the emperor. Their zeal was insensibly

turned into impatience, and their impatience into

rage. The inflexible Caesar sustained till the third

hour of the day their prayers, their reproaches, and

their menaces; nor did he yield, till he had been

repeatedly assured, that if he wished to live, he must

consent to reign. He was exalted on a shield in the

presence, and amidst the unanimous acclamations, of

the troops; a rich military collar, which was offered

by chance, supplied the want of a diadem; the cere­

mony was concluded by the promise of a moderate

donative; and the new emperor, overwhelmed with

real or affected grief, retired into the most secret

recesses of his apartment*.

tes'XIs of ^he grief of Julian could proceed only from his

innocence. innocence; but his innocence must appear extremely

doubtful t in the eyes of those who have learned to

suspect the motives and the professions of princes.

His lively and active mind was susceptible of the

various impressions of hope and fear, of gratitude and

revenge, of duty and of ambition, of the love of fame

and of the fear of reproach. But it is impossible for

us to calculate the respective weight and operation of

these sentiments; or to ascertain the principles of

* For the whole narrative of this revolt, we may appeal to authentic and ori­  
ginal materials; Julian himself (ad S. P. Q. Atheniensem, p. 282, 283, 284.),

Libanius (Orat . Parental. c. 44—48. in Fabricius Bibliot. Graec. torn. vii.
p. 269

—273.), Ammianus (xx. 4.), and Zosimus (1. iii. p. 151, 152, 153.), who, in

the reign of Julian, appears to follow the more respectable authority of
Eunapius.

t Eutropius, a respectable witness, uses a doubtful expression, "consensu

militum." (x. 15).

