OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 141

amount of seven legions, when the place was invested chap.

by the arms of Sapor*. His first and most sanguine XV1.

hopes depended on the success of a general assault.

To the several nations which followed his standard

their respective posts were assigned ; the south to the

Vertae, the north to the Albanians, the east to the

Chionites, inflamed with grief and indignation; the

west to the Segestans, the bravest of his warriors, who

covered their front with a formidable line of Indian

elephants. The Persians, on every side, supported

their efforts, and animated their courage; and the

monarch himself, careless of his rank and safety, dis­

played, in the prosecution of the siege, the ardour of

a youthful soldier. After an obstinate combat, the

Barbarians were repulsed; they incessantly returned

to the charge; they were again driven back with a

dreadful slaughter, and two rebel legions of Gauls,

who had been banished into the East, signalized their

undisciplined courage by a nocturnal sally into the

heart of the Persian camp. In one of the fiercest of

these repeated assaults, Amida was betrayed by the

treachery of a deserter, who indicated to the Barba­

rians a secret and neglected staircase, scooped out of

the rock that hangs over the stream of the Tigris.

Seventy chosen archers of the royal guard ascended

in silence to the third story of a lofty tower which

commanded the precipice; they elevated on high the

Persian banner, the signal of confidence to the as­

sailants, and of dismay to the besieged; and if this

devoted band could have maintained their post a few

minutes longer, the reduction of the place might have

been purchased by the sacrifice of their lives. After

Sapor had tried, without success, the efficacy of force

and of stratagem, he had recourse to the slower but

* The operations of the siege of Amida are very minutely described by Am-  
mianus (xix. 1—9.), who acted an honourable part in the defence, and escaped

with difficulty when the city was stormed by the Persians.

