OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 91

of domestic discord; his capital was surprised and chap.

plundered by Thair, a powerful king of Yemen, or xv'

Arabia; and the majesty of the royal family was

degraded by the captivity of a princess, the sister of

the deceased king. But as soon as Sapor attained

the age of manhood, the presumptuous Thair, his

nation, and his country, fell beneath the first effort

of the young warrior; who used his victory with so

judicious a mixture of rigour and clemency, that he

obtained from the fears and gratitude of the Arabs

the title of Dhoulacnaf, or protector of the nation *.

The ambition of the Persian, to whom his enemies State of

ascribe the virtue of a soldier and a statesman, was tomiaPaiia

animated by the desire of revenging the disgrace ofArmema,

his fathers, and of wresting from the hands of the

Romans the five provinces beyond the Tigris. The

military fame of Constantine, and the real or ap­

parent strength of his government, suspended the

attack; and while the hostile conduct of Sapor pro­

voked the resentment, his artful. negotiations amused

the patience of the Imperial court. The death of

Constantine was the signal of war, and the actual

condition of the Syrian and Armenian frontier

seemed to encourage the Persians by the prospect of y

a rich spoil, and an easy conquest. The example of ^^V-

the massacres of the palace diffused a spirit of licen­

tiousness and sedition among the troops of the east,

who were no longer restrained by their habits of

obedience to a veteran commander. By the pru­

dence of Constantius, who, from the interview with

his brothers in Pannonia, immediately hastened to

the banks of the Euphrates, the legions were gra­

dually restored to a sense of duty and discipline;

but the season of anarchy had permitted Sapor to

form the siege of Nisibis, and to occupy several of

the most important fortresses of Mesopotamia f. In

* D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 764. f J«li«n. Orat. i. p. 20.

