332 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the restitution of the remainder to the rightful pro-

xx' prietors. The citizens of London, who had almost

despaired of their safety, threw open their gates ; and

as soon as Theodosius had obtained from the court of

Treves the important aid of a military lieutenant,

and a civil governor, he executed, with wisdom and

vigour, the laborious task of the deliverance of Bri足

tain. The vagrant soldiers were recalled to their

standard: an edict of amnesty dispelled the public

apprehensions; and his cheerful example alleviated

the rigour of martial discipline. The scattered and

desultory warfare of the Barbarians, who infested the

land and sea, deprived him of the glory of a signal

victory; but the prudent spirit, and consummate art,

A. D. 308 0f the Roman general, were displayed in the opera-

and 309. . . & .' , . , 1 .3 . , , r.

tions oi two campaigns, which successively rescued

every part of the province from the hands of a cruel

and rapacious enemy. The splendour of the cities,

and the security of the fortifications, were diligently

restored, by the paternal care of Theodosius; who

with a strong hand confined the trembling Caledo足

nians to the northern angle of the island; and per足

petuated, by the name and settlement of the new

province of Valentia, the glories of the reign of Va-

lentinian *. The voice of poetry and panegyric may

add, perhaps with some degree of truth, that the un足

known regions of Thule were stained with the blood

of the Picts; that the oars of Theodosius dashed

the waves of the Hyperborean ocean; and that the

distant Orkneys were the scene of his naval victory

over the Saxon pirates t. He left the province

* Ammianus has concisely represented (xx. 1. xxvi. 4. xxvii. 8. xxviii. 3.)  
the whole series of the British war.

.f Horrescit ... ratibus ... impervia Thule.

Ille ... nec falso nornine Pictos

Edomuit. Scotumque vago mucrone secutus

Fregit Hyperboreas remis audacibus undas.

Claudian, in iii Cons. Honorii, ver. 53, &c.

Maduerunt Saxone fuso

Orcades: incaluit Pictorum sanguine Thule.

Scotorum cumulos flevit glacialis Ierne.

Iniv Cons. lion. ver. 31, &c

