OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 161

played his virtues and concealed his defects. The chap.

young hero who supported, in Gaul, the throne of xvx

Constantius, was not permitted to reform the vices

of the government; but he had courage to alleviate

or to pity the distress of the people. Unless he had

been able to revive the martial spirit of the Romans,

or to introduce the arts of industry and refinement

among their savage enemies, he could not entertain

any rational hopes of securing the public tranquillity,

either by the peace or conquest of Germany. Yet

the victories of Julian suspended, for a short time,

the inroads of the Barbarians, and delayed the ruin

of the Western Empire.

His salutary influence restored the cities of Gaul, Description

which had been so long exposed to the evils of civilof Fans'

discord, Barbarian war, and domestic tyranny; and

the spirit of industry was revived with the hopes of

enjoyment. Agriculture, manufactures, and com­

merce, again flourished under the protection of the

laws; and the curice, or civil corporations, were

again filled with useful and respectable members:

the youth were no longer apprehensive of marriage;

and married persons were no longer apprehensive of

posterity: the public and private festivals were cele­

brated with customary pomp; and the frequent and

secure intercourse of the provinces displayed the

image of national prosperity *. A mind like that of

Julian must have felt the general happiness of which

he was the author; but he viewed, with peculiar

satisfaction and complacency, the city of Paris; the

seat of his winter residence, and the object even of

his partial affection t. That splendid capital, which

now embraces an ample territory on either side of

* Libanius, Orat. Parental. in Imp. Julian. c. 38. in Fabricius Bibliothec.  
Grsec. torn. vii. p. 263, 264.

.f See Julian. in Misopogon. p. 340, 341. The primitive state of Paris is

illustrated by Henry Valesius (ad Ammian. xx. 4.), his brother Hadrian Vale-

sius, or de Valois, and M. d'Anville (in their respective Notitias of ancient

Gaul), the Abb£ de Longuerue,Description de la France, torn. i. p. 12, IS. and

M. Bonamy (in the Mem. del'Academiedes Inscriptions, torn. xv. p. G5G—091).

VOL. II. M

