OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 401

of the possibility of vanquishing their invincible ene- chap.

mies. The detachments of these separate garrisons XXI'

were gradually united into small armies; the same

cautious measures were pursued, according to an ex­

tensive and well-concerted plan of operations; the

events of each day added strength and spirit to the

Roman arms; and the artful diligence of the empe­

ror, who circulated the most favourable reports of the

success of the war, contributed to subdue the pride of

the Barbarians, and to animate the hopes and courage

of his subjects. If, instead of this faint and imper­

fect outline, we could accurately represent the coun­

sels and actions of Theodosius, in four successive cam­

paigns, there is reason to believe* that his consummate

skill would deserve the applause of every military

reader. The republic had formerly been saved by

the delays of Fabius: and, while the splendid tro­

phies of Scipio, in the field of Zama, attract the eyes

of posterity, the camps and marches of the dictator

among the hills of Campania may claim a juster pro­

portion of the solid and independent fame, which the

general is not compelled to share, either with fortune

or with his troops. Such was likewise the merit of

Theodosius; and the infirmities of his body, which

most unseasonably languished under a long and dan­

gerous disease, could not oppress the vigour of his

mind; or divert his attention from the public service.

The deliverance and peace of the Roman pro- Divisions, ,

vinces* was the work of prudence, rather than of^6*^^

valour: the prudence of Theodosius was seconded oftheGoth?,

A.D. 37j

by fortune; and the emperor never failed to seize, 382.'

and to improve, every favourable circumstance. As

long as the superior genius of Fritigern preserved the

union, and directed the motions of the Barbarians,

* Compare Themistius (Orat. 14. p. 181), with Zosimus (1. iv. p. 232), Jor-  
nandes (c. xxvii. p. 649), and the prolix Commentary of M. de Buat (Hist. des

Peuples, &c. torn. vi. p. 477—552).

VOL. II. D D

