216 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. munificence were extended to every spot which had

XVIU, been consecrated by the footsteps of patriarchs, of

prophets, and of the Son of God.

Julian at, The vain and ambitious mind of Julian might

rebiSa'the aspire to restore the ancient glory of the temple of

temple. Jerusalem *. As the Christians were firmly persuaded

that a sentence of everlasting destruction had been

pronounced against the whole fabric of the Mosaic

law, the Imperial sophist would have converted the

success of his undertaking into a specious argument

against the faith of prophecy, and the truth of reve­

lation. These considerations might influence his

designs; and the prospect of an immediate and im­

portant advantage would not suffer the impatient

monarch to expect the remote and uncertain event

of the Persian war. He resolved to erect, without

delay, on the commanding eminence of Moriah, a

stately temple, which might eclipse the splendour of

the church of the Resurrection on the adjacent hill

of Calvary; to establish an order of priests, whose

interested zeal would detect the arts, and resist the

ambition, of their Christian rivals; and to invite a

numerous colony of Jews, whose stern fanaticism

would be always prepared to second, and even to an­

ticipate, the hostile measures of the Pagan govern­

ment. Among the friends of the emperor (if the

names of emperor and of friend are not incompatible)

the first place was assigned, by Julian himself, to the

virtuous and learned Alypiust. The humanity of

Alypius was tempered by severe justice, and manly

fortitude; and while he exercised his abilities in the

civil administration of Britain, he imitated, in his

• Imperii sui memoriam magnitudine operum gestiens propagare. Ammian.

xxiii. I. The temple of Jerusalem had been famous even among the Gentiles.

They had many temples in each city (at Sichem five, at Gaza eight, at Rome
four

hundred and twenty-four); but the wealth and religion of the Jewish nation was

centred in one spot.

t Julian, epist. xxix, xxx. La Bleterie has neglected to translate the second

of these epistles.

