OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 241

days in which the Syrians of Antioch could reject chap.

the allurements of pleasure. X1X,

The strongest prejudice was entertained against Their aver,

the character of an apostate, the enemy and successor juiia'n

Of a prince who had engaged the affections of a very

numerous sect; and the removal of St. Babylas ex­

cited an implacable opposition to the person of Julian.

His subjects complained, with superstitious indig­

nation, that famine had pursued the emperor's steps

from Constantinople to Antioch; and the discon­

tent of a hungry people was exasperated by the in­

judicious attempt to relieve their distress. The in- scarcity of

clemency of the season had affected the harvests of

Syria; and the price of bread, in the markets ofcontent,

Antioch, had naturally risen in proportion to the

scarcity of com. But the fair and reasonable pro­

portion was soon violated by the rapacious arts of

monopoly. In this unequal contest, in which the

produce of the land is claimed by one party, as his

exclusive property; is used by another as a lucrative

object of trade; and is required by a third, for the

daily and necessary support of life; all the profits of

the intermediate agents are accumulated on the head

of the defenceless consumers. The hardships of their

situation were exaggerated and increased by their

own impatience and anxiety; and the apprehension

of a scarcity gradually produced the appearances of a

famine. When the luxurious citizens of Antioch

complained of the high price of poultry and fish,

Julian publicly declared, that a frugal city ought to

be satisfied with a regular supply of wine, oil, and

bread; but he acknowledged, that it was the duty

of a sovereign to provide for the subsistence of his

people. With this salutary view, the emperor ven­

tured on a very dangerous and doubtful step, of fixing,

by legal authority, the value of corn. He enacted,

that, in a time of scarcity, it should be sold at a

VOL. II. R

