894 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. that they were summoned to receive a liberal gift of

xxx lands and money, the pleasing hope allayed the fury

of their resentment, and perhaps suspended the mo­

tions of the conspiracy. On the appointed day, the

unarmed crowd of the Gothic youth was carefully

collected in the square, or Forum: the streets and

avenues were occupied by the Roman troops; and

the roofs of the houses were covered with archers and

slingers. At the same hour, in all the cities of the

East, the signal was given of indiscriminate slaughter;

and the provinces of Asia were delivered, by the

cruel prudence of Julius, from a domestic enemy,

who, in a few months, might have carried fire and

sword from the Hellespont to the Euphrates. The

urgent consideration of the public safety may un­

doubtedly authorize the violation of every positive law.

How far that, or any other consideration, may ope­

rate, to dissolve the natural obligations of humanity

and justice, is a doctrine of which I still desire to

remain ignorant.

The em- The emperor Gratian was far advanced on his

peror Gra- . i i • t •

tian invests march towards the plains of Hadrianople, when he

suwwith was informed, at first by the confused voice of fame,

onheEast and afterwards by the more accurate reports of Victor

a.d. 379, and Richomer, that his impatient colleague had been

slain in battle, and that two-thirds of the Roman

army were exterminated by the sword of the victori­

ous Goths. Whatever resentment the rash and jea­

lous vanity of his uncle might deserve, the resent­

ment of a generous mind is easily subdued by the

softer emotions of grief and compassion; and even

the sense of pity was soon lost in the serious and

alarming consideration of the state of the republic.

Gratian was too late to assist, he was too weak to

revenge, his unfortunate colleague; and the valiant

and modest youth felt himself unequal to the support

of a sinking world. A formidable tempest of the

