OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

distaffs of enraged women: and that the entrails of chap.

Christian priests and virgins, after they had been

tasted by those bloody fanatics, were mixed with

barley, and contemptuously thrown to the unclean

animals of the city *. Such scenes of religious mad­

ness exhibit the most contemptible and odious pic­

ture of human nature; but the massacre of Alexan­

dria attracts still more attention, from the certainty

of the fact, the rank of the victims, and the splen­

dour of the capital of Egypt.

George t, from his parents or his education, sur- George of (

named the Cappadocian, was born at Epiphania in ck,Ppa °"

Cilicia, in a fuller's shop. From this obscure and

servile origin he raised himself by the talents of a

parasite: and the patrons, whom he assiduously flat­

tered, procured for their worthless dependent a lu­

crative commission, or contract, to supply the army

with bacon. His employment was mean; he ren­

dered it infamous. He accumulated wealth by the

basest arts of fraud and corruption; but his malver­

sations were so notorious, that George was com­

pelled to escape from the pursuits of justice. After

this disgrace, in which he appears to have saved his

fortune at the expense of his honour, he embraced,

with real or affected zeal, the profession of Arianism.

From the love, or the ostentation, of learning, he

collected a valuable library of history, rhetoric, phi­

losophy, and theology; and the choice of the pre­

vailing faction promoted George of Cappadocia to

the throne of Athanasius. The entrance of the new

* See Gregory Nazianzen (Orat , iii. p. 87,), Sozornen (1. v. c. 9.) may be  
considered as an original, though not impartial, witness. He was a native of

Gaza, and had conversed with the confessor Zeno, who, as bishop of Maiuma,

lived to the age of a hundred (1. vii. c. 28.). Philostorgius (1. vii. c. 4.
with

Godefroy's Dissertations, p. 284.) adds some tragic circumstances, of
Christians)

who were literally sacrificed at the altars of the gods, &c

f The life and death of George of Cappadocia are described by Ammianus

(xxii. 11.), Gregory Nazianzen (Orat. xxi. p. 382. 385. 389, 390.), and Epi,

phanius (Hares. Ixxvi.). The invectives of the two saints might not deserve

much credit, unless they were confirmed by the testimony of the cool and im­

partial infidel.

Q3

