44.6 THE DECLINK AND FALL

chap. inhabitants, were familiar, and even present, to his

xxn, imagination; and Theodosius possessed a quick and

lively sense of the existence of the people whom he

destroyed*.

influence The respectful attachment of the emperor for the

duct of orthodox clergy had disposed him to love and ad-

a!d7388. m're tne character of Ambrose; who united all the

episcopal virtues in the most eminent degree. The

friends and ministers of Theodosius imitated the

example of their sovereign; and he observed, with

more surprise than displeasure, that all his secret

counsels were immediately communicated to the arch­

bishop; who acted from the laudable persuasion, that

every measure of civil government may have some

connexion with the glory of God, and the interest

of the true religion. Theodosius was sincere; and,

during the term of his residence at Milan, his affec­

tion for Ambrose was continually increased by the

habits of pious and familiar conversation.

Th"1^06 °f When Ambrose was informed of the massacre of

sius. Thessalonica, his mind was filled with horror and

a. d. 390. anguisli. jje retire(J into the country to indulge his

grief, and to avoid the presence of Theodosius. But

as the archbishop was satisfied that a timid silence

would render him the accomplice of his guilt, he

represented, in a private letter, the enormity of the

crime; which could only be effaced by the tears of

penitence. The episcopal rigour of Ambrose was tem­

pered by prudence; and he contented himself with

signifying an indirect sort of excommunication, by

the assurance, that he had been warned in a vision,

not to offer the oblation in the name, or in the pre-

* The original evidence of Ambrose (torn. ii. epist. li. p. 998), Augustin (de  
Civitat. Dei, v. 26), andPaulinus (in Vit.Ambros. c. 24), is delivered in
vague

expressions of horror and pity. It is illustrated by the subsequent and
unequal

testimonies of Sozomen (1. vii. c. 25), Theodoret (1. v. c. 17), Theophanes
(Chro­

nograph. p. 62), Cedrenus (p. 317), and Zonaras (torn. ii. 1. xiii. p. 34).
Zosi-

mus alone. the partial enemy of Theodosius, most unaccountably passes over in

silence the worst of his actions.

