OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 325

perils, both of the sea, and of the shore: their skill chap.

was confirmed by the habits of enterprise; the meanest xx'

of their mariners was alike capable of handling an

oar, of rearing a sail, or of conducting a vessel;

and the Saxons rejoiced in the appearance of a tem­

pest, which concealed their design, and dispersed the

fleets of the enemy *. After they had acquired an

accurate knowledge of the maritime provinces of

the West, they extended the scene of their depreda­

tions, and the most sequestered places had no reason

to presume on their security. The Saxon boats

drew so little water, that they could easily proceed

fourscore or a hundred miles up the great rivers;

their weight was so inconsiderable, that they were

transported on waggons from one river to another;

and the pirates who had entered the mouth of the

Seine, or of the Rhine, might descend, with the

rapid stream of the Rhone, into the Mediterranean.

Under the reign of Valentinian, the maritime pro- a. d 371.

vinces of Gaul were afflicted by the Saxons: a mili­

tary count was stationed for the defence of the sea-

coast, or Armorican limit; and that officer, who

found his strength, or his abilities, unequal to the

task, implored the assistance of Severus, master-ge­

neral of the infantry. The Saxons, surrounded and

out-numbered, were forced to relinquish their spoil,

and to yield a select band of their tall and robust

youth to serve in the Imperial armies. They stipu­

lated only a safe and honourable retreat: and the

condition was readily granted by the Roman general;

who meditated an act of perfidy, imprudent as it

was inhuman, while a Saxon remained alive, and in

arms, to revenge the fate of his countrymen. The

premature eagerness of the infantry, who were se-

* The best original account of the Saxon pirates may be found in Sidonius  
Apollinaris (1. viii. epist. 6. p. 223. edit. Sirmond.), and the best
cornmentary in

the Abbe du Bos (Hist. Critique de la Monarchie Francoise, &c. torn. i. 1. 1.

c. 16. p. 148—155.)

Y 3

