OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

number of their brave and robust youth was exacted chap.

from the faithless nation, as the most substantial XXL

pledge of their future moderation. The subjects of

the empire, who had so often experienced that the

Alemanni could neither be subdued by arms nor

restrained by treaties, might not promise themselves

any solid or lasting tranquillity: but they discovered,

in the virtues of their young sovereign, the prospect

of a long and auspicious reign. When the legions

climbed the mountains, and scaled the fortifications,

of the Barbarians, the valour of Gratian was distin­

guished in the foremost ranks; and the gilt and va­

riegated armour of his guards was pierced and shat- ,

tered by the blows, which they had received in their

constant attachment to the person of their sovereign.

At the age of nineteen, the son of Valentinian seemed

to possess the talents of peace and war; and his per-'

sonal success against the Alemanni was interpreted

as a sure presage of his Gothic triumphs *.

While Gratian deserved and enjoyed the applause Valens

of his subjects, the emperor Valens, who, at length, ™"*tcsthe

had removed his court and army from Antioch, was ^°pS'378

received by the people of Constantinople as the au- May 30—

thor of the public calamity. Before he had reposed June n"

himself ten days in the capital, he was urged, by the

licentious clamours of the Hippodrome, to march

against the Barbarians, whom he had invited into his

dominions; and the citizens, who are always brave at

a distance from any real danger, declared, with confi­

dence, that, if they were supplied with arms, they alone

would undertake to deliver the province from the ra­

vages of an insulting foe. The vain reproaches of an

ignorant multitude hastened the downfall of the Ro­

man empire; they provoked the desperate rashness

* The full and impartial narrative of Ammianus (xxxi. 10.) may derive some  
additional light from the Epitome of Victor, the Chronicle of Jerom, and the

History of Orosius (1. vii. c 33. p. 552. edit. Havercamp).

