OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 477

the ruin of the Roman name depended on the chap.

firm union, and reciprocal aid, of all the nations to . XXI11.

whom it had been gradually communicated, the

subjects of Arcadius and Honorius were instructed,

by their respective masters, to view each other in a

foreign, and even hostile, light; to rejoice in their

mutual calamities, and to embrace, as their faithful

allies, the Barbarians, whom they excited to invade

the territories of their countrymen *. The; natives

of Italy affected to despise the servile and effeminate

Greeks of Byzantium, who presumed to imitate the

dress, and to usurp the dignity, of Roman senators t;

and the Greeks had not yet forgot the sentiments of

hatred and contempt, which their polished ancestors

had so long entertained for the rude inhabitants of

the West. The distinction of two governments,

which soon produced the separation of two nations,

will justify my design of suspending the series of the

Byzantine history, to prosecute, without interruption,

the disgraceful, but memorable, reign of Honorius.

The prudent Stilicho, instead of persisting to force Revolt of

the inclinations of a prince, and people, who rejected Africa'"

his government, wisely abandoned Arcadius to his 3 8G

unworthy favourites; "and his reluctance to involve

the two empires in a civil war displayed the modera­

tion of a minister, who had so often signalized his

military spirit and abilities. But if Stilicho had any

longer endured the revolt of Africa, he would have

betrayed the security ©f the capital, and the majesty

of the Western emperor, to the capricious insolence

of a Moorish rebel. Gildo, the brother of the tyrant

* See Claudian (i. Cons. Stilich. 1. i. 275. 292. 296.1. ii. 83), and Zosimus,  
1. v. p. 302.

+ Claudian turns the consulship of the eunuch Eutropius into a national re­

flection (1. ii. 134).

——— Plaudentem cerne senatum

Et Byzantinos proceres, Graiosque Quirites:

O patribus plebes, O digni consule patres.

It is curious to observe the first symptoms of jealousy and schism, between
old and

new Rome, between the Greeks and Latins.

