OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 257

wall, they hastily retired into the fortifications of the chap.

interior citadel. The soldiers of Julian rushed im- XIX,

petuously into the town, and, after the full gratifica­

tion of every military appetite, Perisabor was reduced

to ashes; and the engines which assaulted the citadel

were planted on the ruins of the smoking houses.

The contest was continued by an incessant and mu­

tual discharge of missile weapons; and the superiority

which the Romans might derive from the mechanical

powers of their balistae and catapultae was counterba­

lanced by the advantage of the ground on the side of

the besieged. But as soon as a Hclepolis had been

constructed, which could engage on equal terms with

the loftiest ramparts, the tremendous aspect of a

moving turret, that would leave no hope of resistance

or of mercy, terrified the defenders of the citadel into

a humble submission ; and the place was surrendered

only two days after Julian first appeared under the

walls of Perisabor. Two thousand five hundred per­

sons, of both sexes, the feeble remnant of a flourish­

ing people, were permitted to retire: the plentiful

magazines of corn, of arms, and of splendid furniture,

were partly distributed among the troops, and partly

reserved for the public service: the useless stores

were destroyed by fire, or thrown into the stream of

the Euphrates; and the fate of Amida was revenged

by the total ruin of Perisabor.

The city, or rather fortress, of Maogamalcha, which ^1^8*"

was defended by sixteen large towers, a deep ditch,

and two strong and solid walls of brick and bitumen,

appears to have been constructed at the distance of

eleven miles, as the safeguard of the capital of Persia.

The emperor, apprehensive of leaving such an im­

portant fortress in his rear, immediately formed the

siege of Maogamalcha; and the Roman army was

distributed, for that purpose, into three divisions.

"Victor, at the head of the cavalry, and of a detach-

VOL. II. s

