44 THE DECLINE AND FAlA,

chap. of the republic. Whilst Augustus affected to main-

XIV" tain the freedom of election, he consented to accept

the annual privilege of recommending, or rather in­

deed of nominating, a certain proportion of candi­

dates; and it was his custom to select one of these

distinguished youths, to read his orations or epistles

in the assemblies of the senate. The practice of

Augustus was imitated by succeeding princes; the

occasional commission was established as a permanent

office; and the favoured quaestor, assuming a new and

more illustrious character, alone survived the sup­

pression of his ancient and useless colleagues. As

the orations, which he composed in the name of the

emperor, acquired the force, and, at length, the form

of absolute edicts, he was considered as the repre­

sentative of the legislative power, the oracle of the

council, and the original source of the civil juris­

prudence. He was sometimes invited to take his

seat in the supreme judicature of the Imperial con­

sistory, with the Praetorian praefects, and the master

of the offices; and he was frequently requested to

resolve the doubts of inferior judges: but as he was

not oppressed with a variety of subordinate business,

his leisure and talents were employed to cultivate

that dignified style of eloquence, which, in the cor­

ruption of taste and language, still preserves the

majesty of the Roman laws. In some respects, the

office of the Imperial quaestor may be compared with

that of a modern chancellor; but the use of a great

seal, which seems to have been adopted by the

illiterate Barbarians, was never introduced to attest

The public the public acts of the emperors. 4. The extraordi-

treasurer. titie of count qf the sacred largesses was be­

stowed on the treasurer-general of the revenue, with

the intention perhaps of inculcating, that every pay­

ment flowed from the voluntary bounty of the

monarch. To conceive the almost infinite detail of

