OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 299

maintain the public order; and peaceably to conduct chap.

the army to the city of Nice in Bithynia, which was '_

chosen for the place of the election*. In a solemn

assembly of the civil and military powers of the em­

pire, the diadem was again unanimously offered to

the praefect Sallust. He enjoyed the glory of a

second refusal: and when the virtues of the father

were alleged in favour of his son, the praefect, with

the firmness of a disinterested patriot, declared to the

electors, that the feeble age of the one, and the unex­

perienced youth of the other, were equally incapable

of the laborious duties of government. Several can­

didates were proposed; and, after weighing the objec­

tions of character or situation, they were successively

rejected: but as soon as the name of Valentinian

was. pronounced, the merit of that officer united the

suffrages of the whole assembly, and obtained the

sincere approbation of Sallust himself. Valentinian f Election

was the son of count Gratian, a native of Cibalis, in r"cter &

Pannonia, who, from an obscure condition, had raised Vaieim-

'' 1 man.

himself, by matchless strength and dexterity, to the

military commands of Africa and Britain; from which

he retired, with an ample fortune and suspicious inte­

grity. The rank and services of Gratian contributed,

however, to smooth the first steps of the promotion

of his son; and afforded him an early opportunity

of displaying those solid and useful qualifications,

which raised his character above the ordinary level

of his fellow-soldiers. The person of Valentinian was

tall, graceful, and majestic. His manly countenance,

deeply marked with the impression of sense and spirit,

"Ammianus, xxvi. 1. Zosimus, l . iii. p. 198. Philostorgius, 1. viii. c. 8.

and Godefroy, Dissertat. p. 334. Philostorgius, who appears to have obtained

some curious and authentic intelligence, ascribes the choice of Valentinian to
the

Praefect Sallust, the master-general Arintheus, Degalaiphus count of the
domestics,

and the Patrician Datianus, whose pressing recommendations from Ancyra had

a weighty influence in the election.

t Ammiamis (xxx. 7, 9.), and the younger Victor, have furnished the por.

trait of Valentinian; which naturally precedes and illustrates the history of
his

reign.

