140 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. into immediate submission. The sacrilegious insult

XV1" of a random dart, which glanced against the royal

tiara, convinced him of his error; and the indignant

monarch listened with impatience to the advice of his

ministers, who conjured him not to sacrifice the suc­

cess of his ambition to the gratification of his resent­

ment. The following day Grumbates advanced to­

wards the gates with a select body of troops, and

required the instant surrender of the city, as the only

atonement which could be accepted for such an act of

rashness and insolence. His proposals were answered

by a general discharge, and his only son, a beautiful

and valiant youth, was pierced through the heart by

a javelin, shot from one of the balistae. The funeral

of the prince of the Chionites was celebrated accord­

ing to the rites of his country; and the grief of his

aged father was alleviated by the solemn promise of

Sapor, that the guilty city of Amida should serve as

a funeral pile to expiate the death, and to perpetuate

the memory, of his son.

AmWaf r^^ie anc'ent C^ty of Amid or Amida*, which some­

times assumes the provincial appellation of Diarbekir,

is advantageously situate in a fertile plain, watered

by the natural and artificial channels of the Tigris, of

which the least inconsiderable stream bends in a semi­

circular form round the eastern part of the city.

The emperor Constantius had recently conferred on

Amida the honour of his own name, and the addi­

tional fortifications of strong walls and lofty towers.

It was provided with an arsenal of military engines,

and the ordinary garrison had been reinforced to the

• For the description of Amida, see d'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientale, p.

108. Histoire de Timur Bee, par Cherefeddin Ali, 1. iii. c. 41. Ahmed Arab-

fiades, torn. i. p. 331. c. 43. Voyages de Tavernier, torn. i. p. 301. Voyages

d'Otter, torn. ii. p. 273. and Voyages de Niebuhr, torn. ii. p. 324—328. The

last of these travellers, a learned and accurate Dane, has given a plan of
Amida,

jrhich illustrates the operations of the siege.

