OF THR ROMAN EMPIE.K. 393

Whatever may have been the just measure of the chap.

calamities of Europe, there was reason to fear that XXL

the same calamities would soon extend to the peace- Massacre

ful countries of Asia. The sons of the Goths had "hie youth

been judiciously distributed through the cities of the ^. d!^?8

East; and the arts of education were employed to

polish, and subdue, the native fierceness of their

temper. In the space of about twelve years, their

numbers had continually increased; and the children,

who, in the first emigration, were sent over the Hel­

lespont, had attained, with rapid growth, the strength

and spirit of perfect manhood. It was impossible to

conceal from their knowledge the events of the

Gothic war; and, as those daring youths had not

studied the language of dissimulation, they betrayed

their wish, their desire, perhaps their intention, to.

emulate the glorious example of their fathers. The

danger of the times seemed to justify the jealous

suspicions of the provincials; and these suspicions

were admitted as unquestionable evidence, that the

Goths of Asia had formed a secret and dangerous

conspiracy against the public safety. The death of

Valens had left the East without a sovereign; and

Julius, who filled the important station of master-

general of the troops, with a high reputation of dili­

gence and ability, thought it his duty to consult the

senate of Constantinople; which he considered, dur­

ing the vacancy of the throne, as the representative

council of the nation. As soon as he had obtained

the discretionary power of acting as he should judge

most expedient for the good of the republic, he

assembled the principal officers; and privately con­

certed effectual measures for the execution of his

bloody design. An order was immediately promul­

gated, that, on a stated day, the Gothic youth should

assemble in the capital cities of their respective pro­

vinces; and as a report was. industriously circulated,

