THE DECLINE AND FALL

and Egypt, over which Valens had reigned, were

resigned to the administration of the new emperor;

but, as he was specially intrusted with the conduct

of the Gothic war, the Illyrian prefecture was dis­

membered; and the two great dioceses of Dacia

and Macedonia were added to the dominions of the

Eastern e mpire.

The same province, and, perhaps, the same city,

which had given to the throne the virtues of Trajan,

and the talents of Hadrian, was the original seat of

another family of Spaniards, who, in a less fortunate

age, possessed, near fourscore years, the declining

empire of Rome. They emerged from the obscurity

of municipal honours by the active spirit of the elder

Theodosius, a general, whose exploits in Britain

and Africa have formed one of the most splendid

parts of the annals of Valentinian. The son of that

general, who likewise bore the name of Theodosius,

was educated, by skilful preceptors, in the liberal

studies of youth; but he was instructed in the art

of war by the tender care and severe discipline of

his father. Under the standard of such a leader,

young Theodosius sought glory and knowledge, in

the most distant scenes of military action; inured his

constitution to.the difference of seasons and climates;

distinguished his valour by sea and land; and ob­

served the various warfare of the Scots, the Saxons,

and the Moors. His own merit, and the recom­

mendation of the conqueror of Africa, soon raised

him to a separate command: and in the station of

Duke of Maesia, he vanquished an army of Sarma-

tians; saved the province; deserved the love of the

soldiers; and provoked the envy of the court *. His

rising fortunes were soon blasted by the disgrace and

* Ammianus (xxix. 6) mentions this victory of Theodosius Junior Dux Masiac,  
prima etiam turn lanugine juvenis, princeps postea perspectissimus. The same

fact is attested by Themistius and Zosimus; but Theodoret (1. v. c. 5), who
adds

some curious circumstances, strangely applies it to the time of the
interregnum.

