OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.'' 323

the country, and would infallibly have seized the chap.

object of his pursuit, if his judicious measures had not xx,

been defeated by the impatience of the troops. Ma-

crianus was afterwards admitted to the honour of a

personal conference with the emperor; and the fa­

vours which he received fixed him, till the hour of

his death, a steady and sincere friend of the republic.

The land was covered by the fortifications of Va- The Sax-

lentinian; but the sea-coast of Gaul and Britain was ons,

exposed to the depredations of the Saxons. That

celebrated name, in which we have a dear and do­

mestic interest, escaped the notice" of Tacitus; and

in the maps of Ptolemy, it faintly marks the narrow

neck of the Cimbric peninsula, and three small islands

towards the mouth of the Elbe. This contracted

territory, the present Duchy of Sleswig, or perhaps

of Holstein, was incapable of pouring forth the in­

exhaustible swarms of Saxons who reigned over the

ocean, who filled the British island with their lan­

guage, their laws, and their colonies; and who so

long defended the liberty of the North against the

arms of Charlemagne. The solution of this difficulty

is easily derived from the similar manners, and loose

constitution, of the tribes of Germany; which were

blended with each other by the slightest accidents

of war or friendship. The situation of the native

Saxons disposed them to embrace the hazardous pro­

fessions of fishermen and pirates; and the success of

their first adventures would naturally excite the emu­

lation of their bravest countrymen, who were impa­

tient of the gloomy solitude of their woods and moun­

tains. Every tide might float down the Elbe whole

fleets of canoes, filled with hardy and intrepid asso­

ciates, who aspired to behold the unbounded prospect

of the ocean, and to taste the wealth and luxury of

unknown worlds. It should seem probable, however,

that the most numerous auxiliaries of the Saxons

y 2

