THE DECLINE AND FALL

distant signs, and conveyed the earliest notice, of any

hostile approach. Degalaiphus, and Secundinus duke

of Osrhoene, conducted the troops of the rear-guard;

the baggage, securely, proceeded in the intervals of

the columns; and the ranks, from a motive either

of use or ostentation, were formed in such open

order, that the whole line of march extended almost

ten miles. The ordinary post of Julian was at the

head of the centre column; but as he preferred the

duties of a general to the state of a monarch, he ra­

pidly moved, with a small escort of light cavalry, to

the front, the rear, the flanks, wherever his presence

could animate or protect the march of the Roman

army. The country which they traversed from the

Chaboras to the cultivated lands of Assyria, may be

considered as a part of the desert of Arabia, a dry

and barren waste, which could never be improved

by the most powerful arts of human industry. Julian

marched over the same ground which had been trod

above seven hundred years before by the footsteps of

the younger Cyrus, and which is described by one

of the companions of his expedition, the sage and

heroic Xenophon *. "The country was a plain

"throughout, as even as the sea, and full of worm-

"wood; and if any other kind of shrubs or reeds

** grew there, they had all an aromatic smell*; but  
"no trees could be seen. Bustards and ostriches,

"antelopes and wild asses, appeared to be the only

"inhabitants of the desert; and the fatigues of the

"march were alleviated by the amusements of the

"chase." The loose sand of the desert was fre­

quently raised by the wind into clouds of dust: and

a great number of the soldiers of Julian, with their

* See the first book of the Anabasis, p. 45, 46. This pleasing work is ori­  
ginal and authentic. Yet Xenophon's memory, perhaps many years after the

expedition, has sometimes betrayed him; and the distances which he marks are

often larger than either a soldier or a geographer will allow.

