OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 311

powerful and pernicious energy from the affrighted chap.

fancy of the person whom it was maliciously designed xx,

to represent. From the infusion of those herbs,

which were supposed to possess a supernatural in­

fluence, it was an easy step to the use of more sub­

stantial poison; and the folly of mankind sometimes

became the instrument, and the mask, of the most

atrocious crimes.

When Tacitus describes the deaths of the innocent ^tyofVa-

and illustrious Romans, who were sacrificed to the era- ientinUn

elty of the first Caesars, the art of the historian, or the a. d.364-^-

merit of the sufferers, excite in our breasts the most 375,

lively sensations of terror, of admiration, and of pity.

The coarse and undistinguishing pencil of Ammianus

has delineated his bloody figures with tedious and dis­

gusting accuracy. But as our attention is no longer

engaged by the contrast of freedom and servitude,

of recent greatness and of actual misery, we should

turn with horror from the frequent executions, which

disgraced, both at Rome and Antioch, the reign of

the two brothers. Valens was of a timid, and Va-

lentinian of a choleric, disposition. An anxious re­

gard to his personal safety was the ruling principle

of the administration of Valens. In the condition of

a subject, he had kissed, with trembling awe, the

hand of the oppressor: and when he ascended the

throne, he reasonably expected, that the same fears,

which had subdued his own mind, would secure the

patient submission of his people. The favourites of

Valens obtained, by the privilege of rapine and con­

fiscation, the wealth which his economy would have

refused. They urged, with persuasive eloquence,

that, in all cases of treason, suspicion is equivalent

to proof; that the power, supposes the intention of

mischief; that the intention, is not less criminal

than the act; and that a subject no longer deserves

to live, if his life may threaten the safety, or disturb

x 4

