256 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. The fields of Assyria were devoted by Julian to

XtX' the calamities of war; and the philosopher retaliated

invasion of 0n a guiltless people the acts of rapine and cruelty,

aSd"363, which had been committed by their haughty master

May" in the Roman provinces. The trembling Assyrians

summoned the rivers to their assistance; and com­

pleted, with their own hands, the ruin of their coun­

try. The roads were rendered impracticable; a flood

of waters was poured into the camp; and, during se­

veral days, the troops of Julian were obliged to con­

tend with the most discouraging hardships. But

every obstacle was surmounted by the perseverance

of the legionaries, who were inured to toil as well as

to danger, and who felt themselves animated by the

spirit of their leader. The damage was gradually

repaired; the waters were restored to their proper

channels; whole groves of palm-trees were cut down,

and placed along the broken parts of the road; and

the army passed over the broad and deeper canals, on

bridges of floating rafts, which were supported by the

help of bladders. Two cities of Assyria presumed to

resist the arms of a Roman emperor; and they both

siege of paid the severe penalty of their rashness. At the

Pensabor. (lis^cg 0f fifty miles from the royal residence of

Ctesiphon, Perisabor, or Anbar, held the second

rank in the province: a city, large, populous, and

well fortified, surrounded with a double wall, almost

encompassed by a branch of the Euphrates, and de­

fended by the valour of a numerous garrison. The

exhortations of Hormisdas were repulsed with con­

tempt; and the ears of the Persian prince were

wounded by a just reproach, that, unmindful of his

royal birth, he conducted an army of strangers against

his king and country. The Assyrians maintained their

loyalty by a skilful, as well as vigorous, defence; till

the lucky stroke of a battering ram, having opened a

large breach, by shattering one of the angles of the

