94 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. an advantageous camp, which, by the labour of his

x' numerous pioneers, he surrounded in one day with

a deep ditch, and a lofty rampart. His formidable

host, when it was drawn out in order of battle,

covered the banks of the river, the adjacent heights,

and the whole extent of a plain of above twelve miles,

which separated the two armies. Both were alike

impatient to engage; but the Barbarians, after a

slight resistance, fled in disorder; unable to resist,

or desirous to weary, the strength of the heavy

legions, who, fainting with heat and thirst, pursued

them across the plain, and cut in pieces a line of

cavalry, clothed in complete armour, which had been

posted before the gates of the camp to protect their

retreat. Constantius, who was hurried along in the

pursuit, attempted, without effect, to restrain the

ardour of his troops, by representing to them the

dangers of the approaching night, and the certainty

of completing their success with the return of day.

As they depended much more on their own valour

than on the experience or the abilities of their chief,

they silenced by their clamours his timid remon­

strances; and rushing with fury to the charge, filled

up the ditch, broke down the rampart, and dispersed

themselves through the tents to recruit their ex­

hausted strength, and to enjoy the rich harvest of

their labours. But the prudent Sapor had watched

the moment of victory. His army, of which the

greater part, securely posted on the heights, had

been spectators of the action, advanced in silence,

and under the shadow of the night; and his Persian

archers, guided by the illumination of the camp,

poured a shower of arrows on a disarmed and licen­

tious crowd. The sincerity of history * declares that

the Romans were vanquished with a dreadful slaugh-

• Acerrim& noctuma concertatione pugnatum est, nostrorum copiis ingcnti

strage confossis. Ammian. xviii. 5. See likewise Eutropius, x. 10. and S,

Rufus, c. 27.

