OF THE EOMAN EMPIRE. 383

with a fair, as well as splendid, reputation; and was chap.

immediately promoted to the rank of master-ge, xx"

neral of the cavalry, by a prince, who could applaud,

without envy, the merit of his servants. In the im­

portant station of the Upper Danube, the conqueror

of Britain checked and defeated the armies of the

Alemanni, before he was chosen to suppress the re­

volt of Africa.

III. The prince who refuses to be the iudge, in- . IIL

, . ,. Africa.

structs his people to consider him as the accomplice, Tyranny of

of his ministers. The military command of Africa a^d" 3G6,

had been long exercised by Count Romanus, and his &c,

abilities were not inadequate to bis station: but, as

sordid interest was the sole motive of his conduct, he

acted, on most occasions, as if he had been the enemy

of the province, and the friend of the Barbarians of

the desert. The three flourishing cities of Oea,

Leptis, andSabrata, which, under the name of Tripoli,

had long constituted a federal union, were obliged,

for the first time, to shut their gates against a hostile

invasion; several of their most honourable citizens

were surprised and massacred; the villages, and even

the suburbs, were pillaged; and the vines and fruit-

trees of that rich territory were extirpated by the

malicious savages of Getulia. The unhappy pro­

vincials implored the protection of Romanus; but

they soon found that their military governor was not

less cruel and rapacious than the Barbarians. As they

were incapable of furnishing the four thousand camels,

and the exorbitant present, which he required before

he would march to the assistance of Tripoli, his de­

mand was equivalent to a refusal, and he might justly

be accused as the author of the public calamity. In

the annual assembly of the three cities, they nomi­

nated two deputies, to lay at the feet of Valentinian

the customary offering of a gold victory; and to ac­

company this tribute, of duty, rather than of grati-

