434 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. approved by a majority of the council, Theodosius

. still hesitated whether he should draw the sword in

a contest which could no longer admit any terms of

reconciliation; and his magnanimous character was

not disgraced by the apprehensions which he felt for

the safety of his infant sons, and the welfare of his

exhausted people. In this moment of anxious doubt,

while the fate of the Roman world depended on the

resolution of a single man, the charms of the princess

Galla most powerfully pleaded the cause of her bro­

ther Valentinian. The heart of Theodosius was

softened by the tears of beauty; his affections were

insensibly engaged by the graces of youth and inno­

cence; the art of Justina managed and directed the

impulse of passion; and the celebration of the royal

nuptials was the assurance and signal of the civil war.

The unfeeling critics, who consider every amorous

weakness as an indelible stain on the memory of a

great and. orthodox emperor, are inclined, on this

occasion, to dispute the suspicious evidence of the hi­

storian Zosimus. For my own part, I shall frankly con­

fess, that I am willing to find, or even to seek, in the

revolutions of the world, some traces of the mild and

fender sentiments of domestic life; and, amidst the

crowd of fierce and ambitious conquerors, I can di­

stinguish, with peculiar complacency, a gentle hero,

who may be supposed to receive his armour from the

hands of love. The alliance of the Persian king was

secured by the faith of treaties; the martial Barba­

rians were persuaded to follow the standard, or to

respect the frontiers, of an active and liberal monarch;

and the dominions of Theodosius, from the Euphrates

to the Hadriatic, resounded with the preparations of

war both by land and sea. The skilful disposition of

the forces of the/ East seemed to multiply their num­

bers, and distracted the attention of Maxim us. He

had reason to fear, that a chosen body of troops,

