462 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. other, to the Moors. The great and martial praefec-

XXIIL ture of Illyricum was divided between the two princes;

the defence and possession of the provinces of Nori-

cum, Pannonia, and Dalmatia, still belonged to the

western empire; but the two large dioceses of Dacia

and Macedonia, which Gratian had intrusted to the

valour of Theodosius, were for ever united to the

empire of the East. The boundary in Europe was

not very different from the line which now separates

the Germans and the Turks; and the respective ad-.

vantages of territory, riches, populousness, and mili­

tary strength, were fairly balanced and compensated,

in this final and permanent division of the Roman

empire. The hereditary sceptre of the sons of Theo­

dosius appeared to be the gift of nature, and of their

father; the generals and ministers had been accus­

tomed to adore the majesty of the royal infants; and

the army and people were not admonished of their

rights, and of their power, by the dangerous example

of a recent election. The gradual discovery of the

weakness of Arcadius and Honorius, and the repeated

calamities of their reign, were not sufficient to obli­

terate the deep and early impressions of loyalty. The

subjects of Rome, who still reverenced the persons,

or rather the names, of their sovereigns, beheld, with

equal abhorrence, the rebels who opposed, and the

ministers who abused, the authority of the throne.

and admi. Theodosius had tarnished the glory of his reign by

nitration the elevation of Rufinus; an odious favourite, who,

a.d. 386— in an age of civil and religious faction, has deserved,

!'°' from every party, the imputation of every crime. The

strong impulse of ambition and avarice had urged

Rufinus to abandon his native country, an obscure

corner of Gaul, to advance his fortune in the capital

of the East: the talent of bold and ready elocution

qualified him to succeed in the lucrative profession

of the law; and his success in that profession was a

