898 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. But the most suspicious malignity cannot ascribe to

,XX1. Theodosius, in his obscure solitude of Caucha, the

arts, the desires, or even the hopes, of an ambitious

statesman; and the name of the Exile would long

since have been forgotten, if his genuine and distin­

guished virtues had not left a deep impression in the

Imperial court. During the season of prosperity,

he had been neglected; but, in the public distress,

his superior merit was universally felt and acknow­

ledged. What confidence must have been reposed in

his integrity, since Gratian could trust, that a pious

son would forgive, for the sake of the republic, the

murder of his father! What expectations must have

been formed of his abilities, to encourage the hope,

that a single man could save, and restore, the em­

pire of the East! Theodosius was invested with the

purple in the thirty-third year of his age. The vul­

gar gazed with admiration on the manly beauty of

his face, and the graceful majesty of his person, which

they were pleased to compare with the pictures and

medals of the emperor Trajan; whilst intelligent ob­

servers discovered, in the 'qualities of his heart and

understanding, a more important resemblance to the

.best and greatest of the Roman princes.

Hispm- it is not without the most sincere regret that I

dent and ;P

successful must now take leave of an accurate and faithful guide,

SeOfothic who has composed the history of his own times, with-

waA d out indulging the prejudices and passions which

379-382. usually affect the mind of a contemporary. Am-

mianus Marcellinus, who terminates his useful work

with the defeat and death of Valens, recommends

the more glorious subject of the ensuing reign to the

youthful vigour and eloquence of the rising genera­

tion. The rising generation was not disposed to

accept his advice, or to imitate his example *; and,

• Ammianus was the last subject of Rorne who cornposed a profane history in

the Latin language. The East, in the next century, produced some rhetorical

historians, Zosimus, Olympiodorus, Malchus, Candidus, &c. See Vossius de

Historicis Graecis, 1. ii. c. 18; de HistoricU Latinis, 1. ii. c 10, &c.

