OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 235

to neglect, the orders of an irritated master. The chap.

archbishop prudently retired to the monasteries of XVIIL

the Desert: eluded, with his usual dexterity, the

snares of the enemy; and lived to triumph over the

ashes of a prince, who, in words of formidable im­

port, had declared his wish that the whole venom of

the Galilaean school were contained in the single

person of Athanasius *.

I have endeavoured faithfully to represent the

artful system by which Julian proposed to obtain the

effects, without incurring the guilt, or reproach, of

persecution. His Christian subjects were assured of

the hostile designs of their sovereign; and, to their

jealous apprehension, every circumstance of his go­

vernment might afford some grounds of discontent

and suspicion. In the ordinary administration of

the laws, the Christians, who formed so large a part

of the people, must frequently be condemned: but

their indulgent brethren, without examiningthe merits

of the cause, presumed their innocence, allowed their

claims, and imputed the severity of their judge to

the partial malice of religious persecution. These

present hardships, intolerable as they might appear,

were represented as a slight prelude of the impending

calamities. The Christians considered Julian as a

cruel and crafty tyrant; who suspended the execu­

tion of his .revenge, till he should return victorious

from the Persian war. They expected, that as soon

as he had triumphed over the foreign enemies of

Rome, he would lay aside the irksome mask of dis­

simulation; that the amphitheatres would stream

with the blood of hermits and bishops; and that the

Christians, who still persevered in the profession of

• The three Epistles of Julian, which explain his intentions and conduct with

regard to Athanasius, should be disposed in the following chronological order,

xxvi. x. vi. See likewise Greg. Nazianzen, xxL p. 393. Sozomen, 1. v. c 15.

Socrates, 1. hi. c. 14. Theodoret, 1. iii. c 9. and Tillemont, Mem. Eccles.
torn.

viii. p. 361—368, who has used some materials prepared by the Boliandists.

