THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. culty from their hands. But the Barbarians were

XIx' finally repulsed: the country became every day less

favourable to the operations of cavalry; and when the

Romans arrived at Macepracta, they perceived the

ruins of the wall, which had been constructed by the

ancient kings of Assyria, to secure their dominions

from the incursions of the Medes. These prelimi­

naries of the expedition of Julian appear to have em­

ployed about fifteen days; and we may compute near

three hundred miles from the fortress of Circesium

to the wall of Macepracta *.

of Assyria" fertile province of Assyria t, which stretched

beyond the Tigris, as far as the mountains of Media,

extended about four hundred miles from the ancient

wall of Macepracta to the territory of Basra, where

the united streams of the Euphrates and Tigris dis­

charge themselves into the Persian Gulf. The whole

country might have claimed the peculiar name of

Mesopotamia; as the two rivers, which are never

more distant than fifty, approach, between Bagdad

and Babylon, within twenty-five miles of each other.

A multitude of artificial canals, dug without much

labour in a soft and yielding soil, connected the rivers,

and intersected the plain of Assyria. The uses of

these artificial canals were various and important.

They served to discharge the superfluous waters from

one river into the other, at the season of their respec­

tive inundations. Subdividing themselves into smaller

and smaller branches, they refreshed the dry lands,

and supplied the deficiency of rain. They facilitated

the intercourse of peace and commerce; and as the

dams could be speedily broke down, they armed the

* See Ammianus (xxiv. 1, 2), Libanius (Orat. Parental, c 110, HI. p. 334),  
Zosimus (1. iii. p. 164—168).

f The description of Assyria is furnished by Herodotus (1. L c. 192, &c), who

sometimes writes for children, and sometimes for philosophers; by Strabo (I.
xvi.

p. 1070—1082), and by Ammianus (1. xxiii. c. 6). The most useful of the mo­

dern travellers are Tavemier (part i. 1. ii. p. 226—258), Otter (torn. ii. p.
35—

69, and 189—224), and Niebuhr (torn. ii. p. 172—288). Yet I much regret

that the Irak ArM. of Abulfeda has not been translated.

