10 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. from the port to the Propontis across the enlarged

XIV' breadth of the triangle, at the distance of fifteen

stadia from the ancient fortification; and with the

city of Byzantium they inclosed five of the seven

hills, which, to the eyes of those who approach Con­

stantinople, appear to rise above each other in beauti­

ful order. About a century after the death of the

founder, the new building, extending on one side up

the harbour, and on the other along the Propontis,

already covered the narrow ridge of the sixth, and

the broad summit of the seventh hill. The necessity

of protecting those suburbs from the incessant inroads

of the barbarians, engaged the younger Theodosius

to surround his capital with an adequate and per­

manent inclosure of walls. From the eastern pro­

montory to the golden gate, the extreme length of

Constantinople was about three Roman miles; the

circumference measured between ten and eleven;

and the surface might be computed as equal to about

two thousand English acres. It is impossible to

justify the vain and credulous exaggerations of mo­

dern travellers, who have sometimes stretched the

limits of Constantinople over the adjacent villages of

the European, and even of the Asiatic coast *. But

the suburbs of Pera and Galata, though situate be­

yond the harbour, may deserve to be considered as a

part of the cityt; and this addition may perhaps

<• authorise the measure of a Byzantine historian, who

assigns sixteen Greek (about fourteen Roman) miles

for the circumference of his native city. Such an

* The accurate Thevenot (1 . i. c. 15.) walked in one hour and three quarters  
round two of the sides of the triangle, from the Kiosk of the Seraglio to the
seven

towers. D'Anville examines with care, and receives^ with confidence, this de­

cisive testimony, which gives a circumference of ten or twelve miles. The
extra­

vagant computation ofTournefort (Lettre XI.) of thirty-four or thirty miles,

without including Scutari, is a strange departure from his usual character.

T The sycse, or fig-trees, formed the thirteenth region, and were very much

embellished by Justinian. It has since bome the name of Pera and Galata.

The etymology of the former is obvious; that of the latter is unknown. See Du-

cange, Const. 1. i. c.22. and GylUus de Byzant. 1. iv. c. 10.

