OF THE BOM AN EMPIRE! 147

him in profound ignorance of the practical arts of chap.

war and government; and when he awkwardly re- XV1"

peated some military exercise which it was necessary

for him to learn, he exclaimed with a sigh, "O

"Plato, Plato, what a task for a philosopher!" Yet

even this speculative philosophy, which men of busi­

ness are too apt to despise, had filled the mind of

Julian with the noblest precepts, and the most shin­

ing examples; had animated him with the love of

virtue, the desire of fame, and the contempt of death.

The habits of temperance recommended in the schools,

are still more essential in the severe discipline of a

camp. The simple wants of nature regulated the

measure of his food and sleep. Rejecting with dis­

dain the delicacies provided for his table, he satisfied

his appetite with the coarse and common fare which

was allotted to the meanest soldiers. During the

rigour of a Gallic winter he never suffered a fire in

his bed-chamber; and after a short and interrupted

slumber, he frequently rose in the middle of the

night from a carpet spread on the floor, to despatch

any urgent business, to visit his rounds, or to steal a

few moments for the prosecution of his favourite

studies *. The precepts of eloquence, which' he had

hitherto practised on fancied topics of declamation,

were more usefully applied to excite or to assuage

the passions of an armed multitude: and although

Julian, from his early habits of conversation and

literature, was more familiarly acquainted with the

beauties of the Greek language, he had attained a

competent knowledge of the Latin tongue. Since

Julian was not originally designed for the character

of a legislator, or a judge, it is probable that the

• The private life of Julian in Gaul, and the severe discipline which he em­

braced, are displayed by Ammianus (xvi. 5.1, who professes to praise, and by

Julian himself, who affects to ridicule (Mesopogon, p. 340.), a conduct,
which,

in a prince of the house of Constantine, might justly excite the surprise of
man­

kind.

L 2

