OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 341

confinement in the Tower of Oblivion at Ecbatana, chap.

he was released from the miseries of life, either by xx'

his own dagger, or by that of an assassin. The

kingdom of Armenia was reduced to the state of a

Persian province; the administration was shared be­

tween a distinguished satrap and a favourite eunuch;

and Sapor marched, without delay, to subdue the

martial spirit of the Iberians. Sauromaces, who

reigned in that country by the permission of the em­

perors, was expelled by a superior force; and, as an

insult on the majesty of Rome, .the king of kings

placed a diadem on the head of his abjec t vassal As-

pacuras. The city of Artogerassa* was the only

place of Armenia which presumed to resist the effort

of his arms. The treasure deposited in that strong

fortress tempted the avarice of Sapor; but the dan­

ger of Olympias, the wife, or widow, of the Ar­

menian king, excited the public compassion, and

animated the desperate valour of her subjects and

soldiers. The Persians were surprised and repulsed

under the walls of Artogerassa, by a bold and well-

concerted sally of the besieged. But the forces of

Sapor were continually renewed and increased; the

hopeless courage of the garrison was exhausted; the

strength of the walls yielded to the assault; and the

proud conqueror, after wasting the rebellious city

with fire and sword, led away captive an unfortunate

queen; who, in a more auspicious hour, had been

the destined bride of the son of Constantine. Yet

if Sapor already triumphed in the easy conquest of

two dependent kingdoms, he soon felt, that a coun­

try is unsubdued, as long as the minds of the people

are actuated by a hostile and contumacious spirit.

The satraps, whom he was obliged to trust, embraced

• Perhaps Artagera, or Ardis; under whose walls Caius, the grandson of

Augustus, was wounded. This fortress was situate above Amida, near one of

the sources of the Tigris. See d'Anville, Geographic Ancienne, torn. ii. p.
106.

z 3

