304 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CxxP' *^ne Provmc*al administration remained on its former

basis; but a double supply of generals and magistrates

was required for two councils, and two courts: the

division was made with a just regard to their peculiar

merit and situation, and seven master-generals were

soon created, either of the cavalry or infantry. When

this important business had been amicably transacted,

Valentinian and Valens embraced for the last time.

The emper or of the West established his temporary

residence at Milan; and the emperor of the East

returned to Constantinople, to assume the dominion

of fifty provinces, of whose language he was totally

ignorant *.

Revolt of The tranquillity of the East was soon disturbed by

Procopius, 1 J"

a. d,365. rebellion; and the throne of Valens was threatened

ept. 28. ^ ^e jaring ^tempts of a rival, whose affinity to the

emperor Julian was his sole merit, and had been his

only crime. Procopius had been hastily promoted

from the obscure station of a tribune, and a notary,

to the joint command of the army of Mesopotamia;

the public opinion already named him as the successor

of a prince who was destitute of natural heirs; and

a vain rumour was propagated by his friends, or his

enemies, that Julian, before the altar of the Moon at

Carrha?, had privately invested Procopius with the

Imperial purple. He endeavoured, by his dutiful

and submissive behaviour, to disarm the jealousy of

Jovian ; resigned, without a contest, his military com­

mand; and retired, with his wife and family, to cul­

tivate the ample patrimony which he possessed in the

province of Cappadocia. These useful and innocent

occupations were interrupted by the appearance of an

officer, with a band of soldiers, who, in the name of

his new sovereigns, Valentinian and Valens, was de­

spatched to conduct the unfortunate Procopius either

* Ammianus says, in general terms, subagrestis ingenii, nec bellicis nec liberal-  
ibus studiis eruditus. Ammian. xxxi. 14.

