196 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. degrade the majesty of the throne. Julian was tor-

xviI' mented by the importunities of a multitude, particu­

larly of Egyptians, who loudly demanded the gifts

which they had imprudently or illegally bestowed:

he foresaw the endless prosecution of vexatious suits;

and he engaged a promise, which ought always to

have been sacred, that if they would repair to

Chalcedon, he would meet them in person, to hear

and determine their complaints. But as soon as they

were landed, he issued an absolute order, which pro­

hibited the watermen from transporting any Egyp­

tian to Constantinople; and thus detained his disap­

pointed clients on the Asiatic shore, till their pa­

tience and money being utterly exhausted, they were

obliged to return with indignant murmurs to their

native country *.

clemency of The numerous army of spies, of agents, and in-

formers, mlisted by Constantius to secure the repose

of one man, and to interrupt that of millions, was

immediately disbanded by his generous successor.

Julian was slow in his suspicions, and gentle in his

punishments; and his contempt of treason was the

result of judgment, of vanity, and of courage. Con­

scious of superior merit, he was persuaded that few

among his subjects would dare to meet him in the

field, to attempt his life, or even to seat themselves

on his vacant throne. The philosopher could excuse.

the hasty sallies of discontent; and the hero could

despise the ambitious projects which Surpassed the

fortune or the abilities of the rash conspirators. A

citizen of Ancyra had prepared for his own use a

purple garment; and this indiscreet action, which,

under the reign of Constantius, would have been

considered as a capital offence, was reported to Julian

by the officious importunity of a private enemy. The

* See Ammian. xxii. 6. and Vales. ad locum; and the Codex Theodosianus,  
1. ii. tit. xxxix. leg. I.; and Godefroy's Commentary, torn. i. p. 218. ad
locum.

