OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.' 389

five tribunes, were found among the slain; and the chap.

death of Sebastian might satisfy the world, that he XXL

was the victim, as well as the author, of the public

calamity. Above two-thirds of the Roman army

were destroyed; and the darkness of the night was

esteemed a very favourable circumstance; as it served

to conceal the flight of the multitude, and to protect

the more orderly retreat of Victor and Richomer,

who alone, amidst the general consternation, main­

tained the advantage of calm courage, and regular

discipline *.

. While the impressions of grief and terror were still Funeral

recent in the minds of men, the most celebrated rhe- vaknsand

torician of the age composed the funeral oration of ahisarmy,

vanquished army, and of an unpopular prince, whose

throne was already occupied by a stranger. "There

"are not wanting," says the candid Libanius, "those

"who arraign the prudence of the emperor, or who

"impute the public misfortune to the want of coii-

"rage and discipline in the troops. For my own

"part, I reverence the memory of their former ex-

"ploits: I reverence the glorious death, which they

"bravely received, standing, and fighting in their

"ranks: I reverence the field of battle, stained with

"their blood, and the blood of the Barbarians.

tf Those honourable marks have been already washed

"away by the rains; but the lofty monuments of

"their bones, the bones of generals, of centurions,

"and of valiant warriors, claim a longer period of

"duration. The king himself fought and fell in the

70,000 foot (Polyb. 1. hi.'p. 371. edit. Casaubon, in 8vo.). Livy (xxii. 49)
is

somewhat less bloody :. he slaughters only 2,700 horse, and 40,000 foot. The

Roman army was supposed to consist of 87,200 effective men (xxii. 36).

* We have gained some faint light from Jerom (torn. i. p. 26, and in Chron.  
p. 188), Victor (in Epitome), Orosius (1. vii. c. 33. p. 554), Jornandes, (c.
27),

Zosimus (1. iv. p. 230), Socrates (1 . iv. c. 38), Sozornen (1. vi.c. 40),
Idatius (in

Chron.). But their united evidence, if weighed against Ammianus alone, is
light

and unsubstantial.

c c 3

