OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 291

provinces; and the respectable names of religion and chap.

honour concealed the personal fears and the ambi- XIX"

tion of Jovian. Notwithstanding the dutiful solicita­

tions of the inhabitants, decency, as well as pru­

dence, forbade the emperor to lodge in the palace of

Nisibis; but, the next morning after his arrival, Bi-

neses, the ambassador of Persia, entered the place,

displayed from the citadel the standard of the Great

King, and proclaimed, in his name, the cruel alter­

native of exile or servitude. The principal citizens

of Nisibis, who, till that fatal moment, had confided

in the protection of their sovereign, threw themselves

at his feet. They conjured him not to abandon, or,

at least, not to deliver, a faithful colony to the rage

of a Barbarian tyrant, exasperated by the three suc­

cessive defeats, which he had experienced under the

walls of Nisibis. They still possessed arms and cou­

rage to repel the invaders of their country: they

requested only the permission of using them in th eir

own defence; and, as soon as they had asserted their

independence, they should implore the favour of

being again admitted into the rank of his subjects.

Their arguments, their eloquence, their tears, were

ineffectual. Jovian alleged, with some confusion, the

sanctity of oaths; and, as the reluctance with which

he accepted the present of a crown of gold convinced

the citizens of their hopeless condition, the advocate

Sylvanus was provoked to exclaim, "O Emperor!

"may you thus be crowned by all the cities of your

"dominions!" Jovian, who, in a few weeks had as­

sumed the habits of a prince, was displeased with

freedom, and offended with truth: and as he rea­

sonably supposed, that the discontent of the people

might incline them to submit to the Persian govern­

ment, he published an edict, under pain of death,

that they should leave the city within the term of

three days. Ammianus has delineated in lively colours

u 2

