OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 885

skill, that he prevented the activity of the Barbarians, chap.

who designed to occupy the intermediate defiles, and XXL

to intercept either the troops themselves, or their con­

voys of provisions. The camp of Valens, which he

pitched under the walls of Hadrianople, was fortified,

according to the practice of the Romans, with a ditch

and rampart; and a most important council was

summoned, to decide the fate of the emperor and of

the empire. The party of reason and of delay was

strenuously maintained by Victor, who had corrected,

by the lessons of experience, the native fierceness of

the Sarmatian character; while Sebastian, with the

flexible and obsequious eloquence of a courtier, re­

presented every precaution, and every measure, that

implied a doubt of immediate victory, as unworthy

of the courage and majesty of their invincible mon­

arch. The ruin of Valens was precipitated by the

deceitful arts of Fritigern, and the prudent admoni­

tions of the emperor of the West. The advantages

of negotiating in the midst of war were perfectly un­

derstood by the general of the Barbarians; and a

Christian ecclesiastic was despatched, as the holy mi­

nister of peace, to penetrate, and to perplex, the

councils of the enemy. The misfortunes, as well as

the provocations, of the Gothic nation, were forcibly

and truly described by their ambassador; who pro­

tested, in the name of Fritigern, that he was still dis­

posed to lay down his arms, or to employ them only

in the defence of the empire; if he could secure, for

his wandering countrymen, a tranquil settlement on

the waste lands of Thrace, and a sufficient allowance

of corn and cattle. But he added, in a whisper of

confidential friendship, that the exasperated Barba­

rians were averse to these reasonable conditions;

and that Fritigern was doubtful whether he could

accomplish the conclusion of the treaty, unless he

found himself supported by the presence, and ter-

VOL. II. c c

