THE DECLINE AND PALI/

flattering confession, that a single act of such benefit

to the state ought to atone for all the failings of

Constantius.

The intelligence of the march and rapid progress

of Julian was speedily transmitted to his rival, who,

by the retreat of Sapor, had obtained some respite

from the Persian war. Disguising the anguish of

his soul under the semblance of contempt, Constan­

tius professed his intention of returning into Europe,

and of giving chase to Julian; for he never spoke of

this military expedition in any other light than that

of a hunting party. In the camp of Hierapolis, in

Syria, he communicated this design to his army;

slightly mentioned the guilt and rashness of the

Csesar; and ventured to assure them, that if the

mutineers of Gaul presumed to meet them in the

field, they would be unable to sustain the fire of

their eyes, and the irresistible weight of their shout

of onset. The speech of the emperor was received

with military applause, and Theodotus, the presi­

dent of the council of Hierapolis, requested, with

tears of adulation, that his city might be adorned

with the head of the vanquished rebel *. A chosen

detachment was despatched away in post-wag­

gons, to secure, if it were yet possible, the pass of

Succi; the recruits, the horses, the arms, and the

magazines which had been prepared against Sapor,

were appropriated to the service of the civil war;

and the domestic victories of Constantius inspired

his partisans with the most sanguine assurances of

success. The notary Gaudentius had occupied in

his name the provinces of Africa: the subsistence of

Rome was intercepted; and the distress of Julian

was increased, by an unexpected event, which might

• See the speech and preparations in Ammianus, xxi. 13. The vile Theo­

dotus afterwards implored and obtained his pardon from the merciful conqueror,

who signified his wish of diminishing his enemies, and increasing the number
of

hjs friends (xxii. 14.)

