302 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. "serious deliberation. That deliberation shall be my

XX.

Let your conduct be dutiful and consistent.

"Retire to your quarters; refresh your minds and

"bodies; and expect the accustomed donative on

"the accession of a new emperor." The astonished

troops, with a mixture of pride, of satisfaction, and

of terror, confessed the voice of their master. Their

angry clamours subsided into silent reverence: andVa-

lentinian, encompassed with the eagles of the legions,

and the various banners of the cavalry and infantry,

was conducted, in warlike pomp, to the palace of Nice.

As he was sensible, however, of the importance of

preventing some rash declaration of the soldiers, he

consulted the assembly of the chiefs; and their real

sentiments were concisely expressed by the generous

freedom of Dagalaiphus. "Most excellent prince,"

said that officer, "if you consider only your family,

"you have a brother; if you love the republic, look

"round for the most deserving of the Romans *." The

emperor, who suppressed his displeasure, without al­

tering his intention, slowly proceeded from Nice to

and asso- Nicomedia and Constantinople. In one of the sub-

ciates his . , .

brother urbs of that capital, thirty days after his own elevation,

AfiTW. he bestowed the title of Augustus on his brother

March 28. Valens; and as the boldest patriots were convinced,

that their opposition, without being serviceable to

their country, would be fatal to themselves, the de­

claration of his absolute will was received with silent

submission. Valens was now in the thirty-sixth year

of his age; but his abilities had never been exercised in

any employment, military or civil; and his character

had not inspired the world with any sanguine ex­

pectations. He possessed, however, one quality, which

recommended him to Valentinian, and preserved the

domestic peace of the empire; a devout and grateful

• Si tuos amas, Imperator optime, habes fratrem; si Rempublicam, quaere

quern vestias. Ammian. xxvi. 4. In the division of the empire, Valentinian

retained that sincere counsellor for himself (c. 6.).

