THE DECLINE AND FALL

extended the victory of the former, and the defeat

of the latter, far beyond the limits of a single day.

A Gothic chief was heard to declare, with insolent

moderation, that, for his own part, he was fatigued

with slaughter; but that he was astonished how a

people, who fled before him like a flock of sheep,

could still presume to dispute the possession of their

treasures and provinces. The same terrors which

the name of the Huns had spread among the Gothic

tribes were inspired by the formidable name of the

Goths among the subjects and soldiers of the Ro­

man empire *. If Theodosius, hastily collecting his

scattered forces, had led them into the field to en­

counter a victorious enemy, his army would have been

vanquished by their own fears; and his rashness could

not have been excused by the chance of success. But.

the great Theodosius, an epithet which he honourably

deserved on this momentous occasion, conducted him­

self as the firm and faithful guardian of the republic.

He fixed his head-quarters at Thessalonica, the capital

of the Macedonian diocese t; from whence he could

watch the irregular motions of the Barbarians, and

direct the operations of his lieutenants, from the

gates of Constantinople to the shores of the Hadri-

atic. The fortifications and garrisons of the cities

were strengthened; and the troops, among whom a

sense of order and discipline was revived, were in­

sensibly emboldened by the confidence of their own

safety. From these secure stations, they were en­

couraged to make frequent sallies on the Barbarians,

who infested the adjacent country; and, as they were

seldom allowed to engage, without some decisive su­

periority, either of ground or of numbers, their en­

terprises were, for the most part, successful; and

they were soon convinced, by their own experience,

* Eunapins, in Excerpt. Legation. p. 21.

t See Godefroy's Chronology of the Laws. Codex Thcodos. torn. i. Pro,

legomen. p. xcix—civ.

