OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 361

derable reinforcement from the ruin of the dynasty chap.

of the South, which in the course of the third cen- XX1'

tury submitted to the dominion of China; that the

bravest warriors marched away in search of their free

and adventurous countrymen; and that, as they had

been divided by prosperity, they were easily re-united

by the common hardships of their adverse fortune *.

The Huns, with their flocks and herds, their wives

and children, their dependents and allies, were trans­

ported to the West of the Volga, and they boldly

advanced to invade the country of the Alani, a pas­

toral people, who occupied, or wasted, an extensive

tract of the deserts of Scythia. The plains between

the Volga and the Tanais were covered with the

tents of the Alani, but their name and manners were

diffused over the wide extent of their conquests;

and the painted tribes of the Agathyrsi and Ge-

loni were confounded among their Vassals. To­

wards the North, they penetrated into the frozen re­

gions of Siberia, among the savages who were accus­

tomed, in their rage or hunger, to the taste of hu­

man flesh; and their Southern inroads were pushed"

as far as the confines of Persia and India. The mix­

ture of Sarmatic and German blood had contributed

to improve the features of the Alani, to whiten their

swarthy complexions, and to tinge their hair with a

yellowish cast, which is seldom found in the Tartar

race. They were less deformed in their persons, less

brutish in their manners, than the Huns; but they

did not yield to those formidable Barbarians in their

martial and independent spirit: in the love of free­

dom, which rejected even the use of domestic slaves;

and in the love of arms, which considered war and

rapine as the pleasure and the glory of mankind. A

* See the Histoire des Huns, torn. ii. p. 125—144. The subsequent history  
(p. 145—277) of three or four Hunnic dynasties evidently proves, that their

martial spirit was not impaired by a long residence in China.

