456 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. have been fatal to any other subject, the archbishop

^XI1. rejected the gifts of Eugenius, declined his cor­

respondence, and withdrew himself from Milan, to

avoid the odious presence of a tyrant; whose down-

fal he predicted in discreet and ambiguous language.

The merit of Ambrose was applauded by the con­

queror, who secured the attachment of the people by

his alliance with the church: and the clemency of

Theodosius is ascribed to the humane intercession of

the archbishop of Milan*.

Death of After the defeat of Eugenius, the merit, as well as

AhD?395!' tne authority, of Theodosius was cheerfully acknow-

Jan. 17. ledged by all the inhabitants of the Roman world.

The experience of his past conduct encouraged the

most pleasing expectations of his future reign; and

the age of the emperor, which did not exceed fifty

years, seemed to extend the prospect of the public

felicity. His death, only four months after his vic-

, tory, was considered by the people as an unforeseen

and fatal event, which destroyed, in a moment, the

hopes of the rising generation. But the indulgence

of ease and luxury had secretly nourished the prin­

ciples of disease. The strength of Theodosius was

unable to support the sudden and violent transition

from the palace to the camp; and the increasing

symptoms of a dropsy announced the speedy dissolu­

tion of the emperor. The opinion, and perhaps the

interest, of the public, had confirmed the division of

the Eastern and Western empires; and the two royal

youths, Arcadius and Honorius, who had already ob­

tained, from the tenderness of their father, the title

of Augustus, were destined to fill the thrones of Con­

stantinople and of Rome. Those princes were not

* The events of this civil war are gathered from Ambrose (torn. ii. epist xii.  
p. 1022), Paulinus (in Vit. Ambros. c. 26—34), Augustin (de Civitat. Dei, v.

26), Orosius (1. vii. c. 35), Sozomen (1. vii. c. 24), Theodoret (I. v. c.
24), Zosi,

mus (1. iv. p. 281,282), Claudian (in iii. Cons. Hon. 63—105. in iv Cons. Hon.

70—117), and the Chronicles published by Scaligcr.

