OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 67

The person, as well as the mind, of Constantine chap.

had been enriched by nature with her choicest en- XV'

dowments. His stature was lofty, his countenance His virtues.

majestic, his deportment graceful; his strength and

activity were displayed in every manly exercise, and

from his earliest youth, to a very advanced season of

life, he preserved the vigour of his constitution by a

strict adherence to the domestic virtues of chastity

and temperance. He delighted in the social inter­

course of familiar conversation; and though he might

sometimes indulge his disposition to raillery with less

reseijfre than was required by the severe dignity of

his station, the courtesy and liberality of his man­

ners gained ^the hearts of all who approached him.

The sincerity of his friendship has been suspected;

yet he showed, on some occasions, that he was not

incapable of a warm and lasting attachment. The

disadvantage of an illiterate education had not pre­

vented him from forming a just estimate of the value

of learning; and the arts and sciences derived some

encouragement from the munificent protection of

Constantine. In the despatch of business, his dili­

gence was indefatigable; and the active powers of

his mind were almost continually exercised in read­

ing, writing, or meditating, in giving audience to

ambassadors, and in examining the complaints of

his subjects. Even those who censured the propriety

of his measures were compelled to acknowledge, that

he possessed magnanimity to conceive, and patience

to execute, the most arduous designs, without being

checked either by the prejudices of education, or by

the clamours of the multitude. In the field, he in­

fused his own intrepid spirit into the troops, whom

he conducted with the talents of a consummate ge­

neral; and to his abilities, rather than to his fortune,

we may ascribe the signal victories which he obtained

over the foreign and domestic foes of the republic.

f 2

