OF THE UOMAN EMPIRE. 481

under the standard of Eugenius. These troops, who chap.

were exhorted to convince the world that they could XXIIL

subvert, as well as defend, the throne of an usurper,

consisted of the Jovian, the Herculean, and the Au­

gustan, legions; of the Nervian auxiliaries; of the

soldiers, who displayed in their banners the symbol

of a lion, and of the troops which were distinguished

by the auspicious names of Fortunate and Invincible.

Yet such was the smallness of their establishments,

or the difficulty of recruiting, that these seven bands,

of high dignity and reputation in the service of Rome,

amounted to no more than five thousand effective

men. The fleet of galleys and transports sailed in

tempestuous weather from the port of Pisa, in Tus­

cany, and steered their course to the little island of

Capraria; which had borrowed that name from the

wild goats, its original inhabitants. The leader, who

appeared confident of victory, avoided the dangerous

rocks of Corsica, coasted along the eastern side of

Sardinia, and secured his ships against the violence

of the south wind, by casting anchor in the safe and

capacious harbour of Cagliari, at the distance of one

hundred and forty miles from the African shores *.

Gildo was prepared to resist the invasion with all Defeat and

the forces of Africa. By the liberality of his gifts oudo,

and promises, he endeavoured to secure the doubtful A" D* 398,

allegiance of the Roman soldiers, whilst he attracted

to his standard the distant tribes of Gaetulia and

^Ethiopia. He proudly reviewed an army of seventy

thousand men, and boasted, with the rash presump­

tion which is the forerunner of disgrace, that his

numerous cavalry would trample under their horses'

feet the troops of Mascezel, and involve, in a cloud

of burning sand, the natives of the cold regions of

• Here the first book of the Gildonic. war is terminated. The rest of Cjau-

dian's poem has been lost; and we are ignorant hott,'or where, the army made

good their landing in Africa.

VOL. II. I I

