OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 79

respective dignity and defence. The ministers and chap.

generals, who Were placed about their persons, were xv.

such as Constantine could trust to assist, and even to

control, these youthful sovereigns in the exercise of

their delegated power. As they advanced in years

and experience, the limits of their authority were in­

sensibly enlarged: but the emperor always reserved

for himself the title of Augustus; and while he

showed the Ccesars to the armies and provinces, he

maintained every part of the empire in equal obedi­

ence to its supreme head*. The tranquillity of the

last fourteen years of his reign was scarcely inter­

rupted by the contemptible insurrection of a camel-

driver in the island of Cyprus, or by the active part

which the policy of Constantine engaged him to

assume in the wars of the Goths and Sarmatians.

Among the different branches of the human race, Manners of

the Sarmatians form a very remarkable shade; as they ^anf."""""

seem to unite the manners of the Asiatic barbarians

with the figure and complexion of the ancient inha­

bitants of Europe. According to the various accidents

of peace and war, of alliance or conquest, the Sar­

matians were sometimes confined to the banks of the

Tanais; and they sometimes spread themselves over

the immense plains which lie between the Vistula and

the Volga. The care of their numerous flocks and

herds, the pursuit of game, and the exercise of war,

or rather of rapine, directed the vagrant motions of

the Sarmatians. The moveable camps or cities, the

ordinary residence of their wives and children, con­

sisted only of large waggons drawn by oxen, and

covered in the form of tents. The military strength

of the nation was composed of cavalry; and the cus­

tom of their warriors, to lead in their hand one or

* Eusebius (I. iv. c. 51, 52), with a design of exalting the authority and glory  
of Constantine, affirms, that he divided the Roman empire as a private citizen

might have divided his patrimony. His distribution of the provinces may be

collected from Eutropius, the two Victors, and the Valesian fragment.

