THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. archbishop was that of a Barbarian conqueror: and

XVIII •

_each moment of his reign was polluted by cruelty

and avarice. The Catholics of Alexandria and Egypt

were abandoned to a tyrant, qualified, by nature

and education, to exercise the office of persecution;

Alexandria but he oppressed with an impartial hand the various

and Egypt. inhabitants of his extensive diocese. The primate

of Egypt assumed the pomp and insolence of his

lofty station; but he still betrayed the vices of his

base and servile extraction. The merchants of Alex­

andria were impoverished by the unjust, and almost

universal monopoly, which he acquired, of nitre, salt,

paper, funerals, &c. and the spiritual father of a great

people condescended to practise the vile and perni­

cious arts of an informer. The Alexandrians could

never forget, nor forgive, the tax, which he sug­

gested, on all the houses of the city; under an ob­

solete claim, that the royal founder had conveyed to

his successors, the Ptolemies and the Caesars, the

perpetual property of the soil. The Pagans, who

had been flattered with the hopes of freedom and

toleration, excited his devout avarice; and the rich

temples of Alexandria were either pillaged or in­

sulted by the haughty prelate, who exclaimed, in a

loud and threatening tone, "How long will these

"sepulchres be permitted to stand?" Under the

reign of Constantius, he was expelled by the fury,

or rather by the justice* of the people; and it was

not without a violent struggle, that the civil and

military powers of the state could restore his au­

thority, and gratify his revenge. The messenger

who proclaimed at Alexandria the accession of Julian,

A.D. 361, announced the downfal of the archbishop. George,

Nov. 30. . . .. . , . . . r 1

with two of his obsequious ministers, count Diodorus,

and Dracontius, master of the mint, were igno-

miniously dragged in chains to the public prison.

racred b^* At tne en(* °^ twenty-four days, the prison was forced

the people, 0pen by the rage of a superstitious multitude, im­

