862 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. naked scimitar, fixed in the ground, was the only

XXL object of their religious worship; the scalps of their

enemies formed the costly trappings of their horses;

and they viewed with pity and contempt the pusilla­

nimous warriors, who patiently expected the infirmi­

ties of age, and the tortures of lingering disease. On

the banks of the Tanais, the military power of the

Huns and the Alani encountered each other with

equal valour, but with unequal success. The Huns

prevailed in the bloody contest: the king of the

Alani was slain; and the remains of the vanquished

nation were dispersed by the ordinary alternative of

flight or submission *. A colony of exiles found a

secure refuge in the mountains of Caucasus, between

the Euxine and the Caspian; where they still pre­

serve their name and their independence. Another

colony advanced, with more intrepid courage, to­

wards the shores of the Baltic; associated themselves

with the Northern tribes of Germany; and shared

the spoil of the Roman provinces of Gaul and Spain.

But the greatest part of the nation of the Alani em­

braced the offers of an honourable and advantageous

union; and the Huns, who esteemed the valour of

their less fortunate enemies, proceeded, with an

increase of numbers and confidence, to invade the

limits of the Gothic empire.

Their vie The great Hermanric, whose dominions extended

AeGotfT, from the Baltic to the Euxine, enjoyed, in the full

A. d. 375. maturity of age and reputation, the fruit of his vic­

tories, when he was alarmed by the formidable ap­

proach of a host of unknown enemies, on whom his

barbarous subjects might, without injustice, bestow

the epithet of Barbarians. The numbers, the strength,

the rapid motions, and the implacable cruelty of the

* On the subject of the Alani, see Ammianus (xxxi. 2), Jornandes (de Rebus  
Geticis, c 24), SI. de Guignes' (Hist , des Huns, torn. ii. p. 279), and the

Genealogical History of the Tartars (torn. ii p. 617).

