OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE; 41

and the palace of the son of Constantine, were go- chap.

verned by the powerful faction of the Franks, who XIv'

preserved the strictest connexion with each other,

and with their country, and who resented every per足

sonal affront as a national indignity. When the

tyrant Caligula was suspected of an intention to

invest a very extraordinary candidate with the con足

sular robes, the sacrilegious profanation would have

scarcely excited less astonishment, if, instead of a

horse, the noblest chieftain of Germany or Britain

had been the object of his choice. The revolution

of three centuries had produced so remarkable a

change in the prejudices of the people, that, with the

public approbation, Constantine showed his successors

the example of bestowing the honours of the consul足

ship on the Barbarians, who, by their merit and ser足

vices, had deserved to be ranked among the first of

the Romans. But as these hardy veterans, who had

been educated in the ignorance or contempt of the

laws, were incapable of exercising any civil offices^

the powers of the human mind were contracted by

the irreconcileable separation of talents as well as of

professions. The accomplished citizens of the Greek

and Roman republics, whose characters could adapt

themselves to the bar, the senate, the camp, or the

schools, had learned to write, to speak, and to act

with the same spirit, and with equal abilities.

IV. Besides the magistrates and generals, who at Seven mi-

a distance from the court diffused their delegated "he'paiace.

authority over the provinces and armies, the emperor

conferred the rank of Illustrious on seven of his more

immediate servants, to whose fidelity he entrusted

his safety, or his counsels, or his treasures. 1. The Thecham-

private apartments of the palace were governed by a berhin,

favourite eunuch, who, in the language of that age,

was styled the propositus or praefect of the sacred

bed-chamber. His duty was to attend the emperor

