282 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. who was no more than first of the domestics, with

XfX, the names of Emperor and Augustus. The tumult­

uary acclamation was instantly repeated by the guards

who surrounded the tent, and passed, in a few mi­

nutes, to the extremities of the line. The new prince,

astonished with his own fortune, was hastily invested

with the Imperial ornaments, and received an oath

of fidelity from the generals, whose favour and pro­

tection he so lately solicited. The strongest recom­

mendation of Jovian was the merit of his father,

Count Varronian, who enjoyed, in honourable re­

tirement, the fruit of his long services. In the ob­

scure freedom of a private station, the son supported,

with credit, the character of a Christian and a sol­

dier. Without being conspicuous for any of the am­

bitious qualifications which excite the admiration and

envy of mankind, the comely person of Jovian, his

cheerful temper, and familiar wit, had gained the

affection of his fellow soldiers; and the generals of

both parties acquiesced in a popular election, which

had not been conducted by the arts of their enemies.

The pride of this unexpected elevation was mode­

rated by the just apprehension, that the same day

might terminate the life and reign of the new em­

peror. The pressing voice of necessity was obeyed

without delay; and the first orders issued by Jovian,

a few hours after his predecessor had expired, were

to prosecute a march, which could alone extricate

the Romans from their actual distress *.

anTdiffi esteem of an enemy is most sincerely expressed

cuity of by his fears; and the degree of fear may be accu-

June 27th rately measured by the joy with which he celebrates

—July 1st. his deliverance. The welcome news of the death of

Julian, which a deserter revealed to the camp of

Sapor, inspired the desponding monarch with a sud-

* Ammianus (xxv. 10.) has drawn from the life an impartial portrait of Jo­  
vian: to which the younger Victor has added some remarkable strokes.

