OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 207

upon earth, to enjoy the conversation of their fa- chap.

vourite hero; that they gently interrupted his slum- XVIH,

bers, by touching his hand or his hair; that they

warned him of every impending danger, and con­

ducted him, by their infallible wisdom, in every action

of his life; and that he had acquired such an inti­

mate knowledge of his heavenly guests, as readily to

distinguish the voice of Jupiter from that of Minerva,

and the form of Apollo from the figure of Hercules *.

The apostate soon became the presumptive heir of

the monarchy, and his death could alone have ap­

peased the just apprehensions of the Christians. But

the young prince, who aspired to the glory of a hero

rather than of a martyr, consulted his safety by dis­

sembling his religion; and the easy temper of poly­

theism permitted him to join in the public worship

of a sect which he inwardly despised. Libanius

has considered the hypocrisy of his friend as a sub­

ject, not of censure, but of praise.

The dissimulation of Julian lasted above ten years,

from his secret initiation at Ephesus, to the begin­

ning of the civil war; when he declared himself at

once the implacable enemy of Christ and of Con­

stants. This state of constraint might contribute

to strengthen his devotion; and as soon as he had

satisfied the obligation of assisting, on solemn festi­

vals, at the assemblies of the Christians, Julian re­

turned, with the impatience of a lover, to burn his

free and voluntary incense on the domestic chapels

of Jupiter and Mercury. But as every act of dis­

simulation must be painful to an ingenuous spirit,

, the profession of Christianity increased the aversion

of Julian for a religion, which oppressed the freedom

of his mind, and compelled him to hold a conduct

• Julian's modesty confined him to obscure and occasional hints; but Li­

banius expatiates with pleasure on the fasts and visions of the religious
hero.

(Legat , ad Julian. p. 157. and Orat. Parental. c. lxxxiii. p. 309, 310.).

