OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 119

Gallus in haughty language, that a prince who was chap.

scarcely authorized to remove a municipal magistrate XVI'

should presume to imprison a Praetorian praefect;

convoked a meeting of the civil and military officers;

and required them, in the name of their sovereign,

to defend the person and dignity of his representa­

tives. By this rash declaration of war, the impatient

temper of Gallus was provoked to embrace the most

desperate counsels. He ordered his guards to stand

to their arms, assembled the populace of Antioch,

and recommended to their zeal the care of his safety

and revenge. His commands were too fatally obeyed.

They rudely seized the praefect and the quaestor, and

tying their legs together with ropes, they dragged

them through the streets of the city, inflicted a thou­

sand insults and a thousand wounds on these un­

happy victims, and at last precipitated their mangled

and lifeless bodies into the stream of the Orontes *.

After such a deed, whatever might have been the ?t*"f"°u0sf

designs of Gallus, it was only in a field of battle that Gallus.

he could assert his innocence with any hope of success.

But the mind of that prince was formed of an equal

mixture of violence and weakness. Instead of as­

suming the title of Augustus, instead of employing

in his defence the troops and treasures of the East,

he suffered himself to be deceived by the affected

tranquillity of Constantius, who, leaving him the vain

pageantry of a court, imperceptibly recalled the vete­

ran legions from the provinces of Asia. But as it

still appeared dangerous to arrest Gallus in his capi­

tal, the slow and safer arts of dissimulation were

practised with success. The frequent and pressing

* Instead of being obliged to collect scattered and imperfect hints from various  
sources, we now enter into the full stream of the history of Ammianus, and
need

only refer to the seventh and ninth chapters of his fourteenth book. Philo,

storgius, however (1. iii. c. 28.), though partial to Gallus, should not be
entirely

overlooked.

