OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 433

stop the career of his inglorious victory, Maximus chap.

would have obtained, without a struggle, the sole XXI1'

possession of the Western empire.

Instead of inviting his royal guests to the palace Theodosius

of Constantinople, Theodosius had some unknown i* Ae™se

reasons to fix their residence at Thessalonica: but Sl^111611"

these reasons did not proceed from contempt or in- a. d. 387.

difference, as he speedily made a visit to that city,

accompanied by the greatest part of his court and

senate. After the first tender expressions of friend­

ship and sympathy, the pious emperor of the East

gently admonished Justina, that the guilt of heresy

was sometimes punished in this world, as well as

in the next; and that the public profession of the

Nicene faith would be the most efficacious step to

promote the restoration of her son, by the satisfaction

which it must occasion both on earth and in heaven.

The momentous question of peace or war was referred,

by Theodosius, to the deliberation of his council;

and the arguments which might be alleged on the

side of honour and justice had acquired, since the

death of Gratian, a considerable degree of additional

weight. The persecution of the Imperial family, to

which Theodosius himself had been indebted for his

fortune, was now aggravated by recent and repeated

injuries. Neither oaths nor treaties could restrain the

boundless ambition of Maximus; and the delay of

vigorous and decisive measures, instead of prolonging

the blessings of peace, would expose the eastern em­

pire to the danger of a hostile invasion. The Bar­

barians, who had passed the Danube, had lately as­

sumed the character of soldiers and subjects, but their

native fierceness was yet untamed; and the opera­

tions of a war, which would exercise their valour, and

diminish their numbers, might tend to relieve the

provinces from an intolerable oppression. Notwith­

standing these specious and solid reasons, which were

VOL. II. F F

