280 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. as body, most probably hastened his death. His

XIX' wound began to bleed with fresh violence; his re­

spiration was embarrassed by the swelling of the

veins: he called for a draught of cold water, and,

as soon as he had drank it, expired without pain,

about the hour of midnight. Such was the end of

that extraordinary man, in the thirty-second year of

his age, after a reign of one year and about eight

months, from the death of Constantius. In his last

moments he displayed, perhaps with some ostentation,

the love of virtue and of fame, which had been the

ruling passions of his life.

Election of The triumph of Christianity, and the calamities

the emperor _ . . . ' ■ ,i j

Jovian, oi the empire, may, in some measure, be ascribed

fa^'276.3' *o Juliau himself, who had neglected to secure the

future execution of his designs, by the timely and

judicious nomination of an associate and successor.

But the royal race of Constantius Chlorus was re­

duced to his own person: and if he entertained any

serious thoughts of investing with the purple the most

worthy among the Romans, he was diverted from

his resolution by the difficulty of the choice, the

jealousy of power, the fear of ingratitude, and the

natural presumption of health, of youth, and of pros­

perity. His unexpected death left the empire with­

out a master, and without an heir, in a state of per­

plexity and danger, which, in the space of fourscore

years, had never been experienced, since the election

of Diocletian. In a government, which had almost

forgotten the distinction of pure and noble blood, the

superiority of birth was of little moment; the claims

of official rank were accidental and precarious; and

the candidates, who might aspire to ascend the vacant

throne, could be supported only by the consciousness

of personal merit, or by the hopes' of popular favour.

But the situation of a famished army, encompassed

on all sides by a host of Barbarians, shortened the

