OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 445

Theodosius had despatched the messengers of death, chap.

he attempted, when it was too late, to prevent the XXIL

execution of his orders. The punishment of a Ro­

man city was blindly committed to the undistinguish-

ing sword of the Barbarians; and the hostile pre­

parations were concerted with the dark and perfidious

artifice of an illegal conspiracy. The people of Thes-

salonica were treacherously invited, in the name of

their sovereign, to the games of the Circus; and such

was their insatiate avidity for those amusements, that

every consideration of fear, or suspicion, was disre­

garded by the numerous spectators. As soon as the

assembly was complete, the soldiers, who had secretly

been posted round the Circus, received the signal,

not of the races, but of a general massacre. The pro­

miscuous carnage continued three hours, without dis­

crimination of strangers or natives, of age or sex, of

innocence or guilt: the most moderate accounts state

the number of the slain at seven thousand; and it is

affirmed by some writers, that more than fifteen thou­

sand victims were sacrificed to the manes of Botheric.

A foreign merchant, who had probably no concern

in his murder, offered his own life, and all his wealth,

to supply the place of one of his two sons; but, while

the father hesitated with equal tenderness, while he

was doubtful to choose, and unwilling to condemn, the

soldiers determined his suspense, by plunging their

daggers at the same moment into the breasts of the

defenceless youths. The apology of the assassins,

that they were obliged to produce the prescribed

number of heads, serves only to increase, by an ap­

pearance of order and design, the horrors of the mas­

sacre, which was executed by the commands of Theo­

dosius. The guilt of the emperor is aggravated

by his long and frequent residence at Thessalonica.

The situation of the unfortunate city, the aspect of

the streets and buildings, the dress and faces of the

