OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 319

the sound of the Roman trumpet; they saw the enemy chap.

in their camp. Astonishment produced disorder; xx'

disorder was followed by flight and dismay; and the

confused multitude of the bravest warriors was pierced

by the swords and javelins of the legionaries and

auxiliaries. The fugitives escaped to the third and

most considerable camp, in the Catalaunian plains,

near Chalons in Champagne: the straggling detach­

ments were hastily recalled to their standard; and

the Barbarian chiefs, alarmed and admonished by

the fate of their companions, prepared to encounter,

in a decisive battle, the victorious forces of the lieu­

tenant of Valentinian. The bloody and obstinate con­

flict lasted a whole summer's day, with equal valour,

and with alternate success. The Romans at length

prevailed, with the loss of about twelve hundred men. .

Six thousand of the Alemanni were slain, four thou­

sand were wounded; and the brave Jovinus, after

chasing the flying remnant of their host as far as the

banks of the Rhine, returned to Paris, to receive the

applause of his sovereign, and the ensigns of the

consulship for the ensuing year*. The triumph of July.

the Romans was indeed sullied by their treatment of

the captive king, whom they hung on a gibbet with­

out the knowledge of their indignant general. This

disgraceful act of cruelty, which might be imputed

to the fury of the troops, was followed by the de­

liberate murder of Withicab, the son of Vadomair;

a German prince, of a weak and sickly constitution,

but of a daring and formidable spirit. The domestic

assassin was instigated and protected by the Romans;

and the violation of the laws of humanity and justice

betrayed their secret apprehension of the weakness

of the declining empire. The use of the dagger is

seldom adopted in public councils, as long as they

retain any confidence in the power of the sword.

* The battles are described by Ammianus (xxvii. 2.), and by Zosimus (1. iv.  
p. 209.); who supposes Valentinian to have been present.

