OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 381

attention, and diverted the forces, of the emperor of chap.

the West*.

One of the most dangerous inconveniencies of the gj^J!* of

introduction of the Barbarians into the army and the over the

palace was sensibly felt in their correspondence with a. d. 378.

their hostile countrymen; to whom they imprudently, May'

or maliciously, revealed the weakness of the Roman

empire. A soldier, of the life-guards of Gratian,

was of the nation of the Alemanni, and of the tribe

of the Lentienses, who dwelt beyond the lake of

Constance. Some domestic business obliged him to

request a leave of absence. In a short visit to his

family and friends, he was exposed to their curious

inquiries; and the vanity of the loquacious soldier

tempted him to display his intimate acquaintance

with the secrets of the state, and the designs of his

master. The intelligence, that Gratian was pre­

paring to lead the military force of Gaul, and of the

West, to the assistance of his uncle Valens, pointed

out to the restless spirit of the Alemanni the mo­

ment, and the mode, of a successful invasion. The

enterprise of some light detachments, who, in the

month of February, passed the Rhine upon the ice,

was the prelude of a more important war. The

boldest hopes of rapine, perhaps of conquest, out­

weighed the considerations of timid prudence, or na­

tional faith. Every forest, and every village, poured

forth a band of hardy adventurers; and the great

army of the Alemanni, which, on their approach,

was estimated at forty thousand men by the fears of

the people, was afterwards magnified to the number

of seventy thousand, by the vain and credulous flat­

tery of the Imperial court. The legions, which had

been ordered to march into Pannonia, were immedi-

* Ammian. xxxi. 8, 9. Jerom (torn. i. p. 26.) enumerates the nations, and  
marks a calamitous period of twenty years. This epistle to Heliodorus was com­

posed in the year 397 (Tillemont, Mem. Eccles. torn. xii. p. 645).

