OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 377

of the East: but, on this occasion alone, Valens was chap.

brave; and his unseasonable bravery was fatal to him- . XXL _

self and to his subjects. He declared his intention

of marching from Antioch to Constantinople, to sub­

due this dangerous rebellion; and, as he was not ig­

norant of the difficulties of the enterprise, he solicited

the assistance of his nephew, the emperor Gratian,

who commanded all the forces of the West. The

veteran troops were hastily recalled from the defence

of Armenia; that important frontier was abandoned

to the discretion of Sapor; and the immediate con­

duct of the Gothic war was intrusted, during the

absence of Valens, to his lieutenants Trajan and Pro-

futurus, two generals who indulged themselves in a

very false and favourable opinion of their own abili­

ties. On their arrival in Thrace, they were joined

by Richomer, count of the domestics; and the auxi­

liaries of the West, that marched under his banner,

were composed of the Gallic legions, reduced indeed

by a spirit of desertion to the vain appearances of

strength and numbers. In a council of war, which

was influenced by pride, rather than by reason, it was

resolved to seek, and to encounter, the Barbarians;

who lay encamped in the spacious and fertile mea­

dows, near the most southern of the six mouths of the

Danube. Their camp was surrounded by the usual

fortification of waggons; and the Barbarians, secure

within the vast circle of the inclosure, enjoyed the

fruits of their valour, and the spoils of the province.

In the midst of riotous intemperance, the watchful

Fritigern observed the motions and penetrated the

designs of the Romans. He perceived, that the num­

bers of the enemy were continually increasing; and,

as he understood their intention of attacking his rear,

as soon as the scarcity of forage should oblige him to

remove his camp, he recalled to their standard his

predatory detachments, which covered the adjacent

