186 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Mopsucrene, twelve miles beyond Tarsus, where he

XVIi" expired, after a short illness, in the forty-fifth year

of his age, and the twenty-fourth of his reign. His

genuine character, which was composed of pride and

weakness, of superstition and cruelty, has been fully

displayed in the preceding narrative. The long

abuse of power rendered him a considerable object

in the eyes of his contemporaries; but as personal

merit can alone deserve the notice of posterity, the

last of the sons of Constantine may be dismissed from

the world with the remark, that he inherited the

defects, without the abilities, of his father. Before

Constantius expired, he is said to have named Julian

for his successor; nor does it seem improbable, that

his anxious concern for the fate of a young and

tender wife, whom he left with child, may have pre­

vailed, in his last moments, over the harsher pas­

sions of hatred and revenge. Eusebius, and his

guilty associates, made a faint attempt to prolong

the reign of the eunuchs, by the election of another

emperor: but their intrigues were rejected with dis­

dain by an army which now abhorred the thought of

civil discord; and two officers of rank were instantly

despatched, to assure Julian, that every sword in the

empire would be drawn for his service. The mili­

tary designs of that prince, who had formed three

different attacks against Thrace, were prevented by

this fortunate event. Without shedding the blood

of his fellow-citizens, he escaped the dangers of a

doubtful conflict, and acquired the advantages of a

complete victory. Impatient to visit the place of his

birth, and the new capital of the empire, he ad­

vanced from Naissus through the mountains of Hae-

mus, and the cities of Thrace. When he reached

Julian en. Heraclea, at the distance of sixty miles, all Con­

fers Con- i i> i ...

stantinopie, stantmople was poured forth to receive him; and he

Dec' made his triumphal entry, amidst the dutiful acclama­

