288 THE DECLINE AND FALL

XIX.

chap. the river. The small vessels which had been saved

_from the conflagration of the fleet performed the

most essential service. They first conveyed the em­

peror and his favourites; and afterwards transported,

in many successive voyages, a great part of the

army. But, as every man was anxious for his per­

sonal safety, and apprehensive of being left on the

hostile shore, the soldiers, who were too impatient

to wait the slow returns of the boats, boldly ventured

themselves on light hurdles, or inflated skins; and,

drawing after them their horses, attempted, with

various success, to swim across the river. Many of

these daring adventurers were swallowed by the

waves; many others, who were carried along by the

violence of the stream, fell an easy prey to the ava­

rice, or cruelty, of the wild Arabs: and the loss

which the army sustained in the passage of the Ti­

gris was not inferior to the carnage of a day of bat­

tle. As soon as the Romans had landed on the

western bank, they were delivered from the hostile

pursuit of the Barbarians; but, in a laborious march

of two hundred miles over the plains of Mesopo­

tamia, they endured the last extremities of thirst

and hunger. They were obliged to traverse a sandy

desert, which, in the extent of seventy miles, did

not afford a single blade of sweet grass, nor a single

spring of fresh water; and the rest of the inhospita­

ble waste was untrod by the footsteps either of friends

or enemies. Whenever a small measure of flour

could be discovered in the camp, twenty pounds

weight were greedily purchased with ten pieces of

gold *: the beasts of burden were slaughtered and

* We may recollect some lines of Lucan (Pharsal. iv. 95.), who describes a  
similar distress of Caisar's army in Spain:

Sffiva fames aderat——

Miles eget: toto censu non prodigus emit

Exiguam Cererem. Proh lucri pallida tabes!

Non deest prolato jejunus venditor auro.

See Guichardt (Nouveaux Memoires Militaires, torn. i. p. 379—382.). His

Analysis of the two Campaigns in Spain and Africa is the noblest monument that

has ever been raised to the fame of CsBsar.

