314 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. played a style and spirit of legislation which might

xx' inspire posterity with the most favourable opinion of

their character and government. It is not from the

master of Innocence, that we should expect the ten­

der regard for the welfare of his subjects, which

prompted Valentinian to condemn the exposition of

new-born infants *; and to establish fourteen skilful

physicians, with stipends and privileges, in the four­

teen quarters of Rome. The good sense of an illi­

terate soldier founded an useful and liberal institution

for the education of youth, and the support of de­

clining science. It was his intention, that the arts

of rhetoric and grammar should be taught in the

Greek and Latin languages, in the metropolis. of

every province; and as the size and dignity of the

school was usually proportioned to the importance of

the city, the academies of Rome and Constantinople

claimed a just and singular pre-eminence. The frag­

ments of the literary edicts of Valentinian imper­

fectly represent the school of Constantinople, which

was gradually improved by subsequent regulations.

That school consisted of thirty-one professors in dif­

ferent branches of learning. One philosopher, and

two lawyers; five sophists, and ten grammarians for •

the Greek, and three orators, and ten grammarians

for the Latin, tongue; besides seven scribes, or, as

they were then styled, antiquarians, whose laborious

pens supplied the public library with fair and correct

copies of the classic writers. The rule of conduct,

which was prescribed to the students, is the more

curious, as it affords the first outlines of the form

and discipline of a modern university. It was re­

quired, that they should bring proper certificates

from the magistrates of their native province. Their

* See the Code of Justinian, 1. viii. tit. lii. leg. 2. Unusquisque sobolcm  
suam nutriat. Quod si exponendam putaverit animadversion! qua; constituta est

subjacebit.

