14 THE DECLINE AND FALL

*7

chap. or quarters of the city. It may be sufficient to ob-

XIv' serve, that whatever could adorn the dignity of a great

capital, or contribute to the benefit or pleasure of

its numerous inhabitants, was contained within the

walls of Constantinople. A particular description,

composed about a century after its foundation, enu­

merates a capitol or school of learning, a circus, two

theatres, eight public, and one hundred and fifty-three

private, baths, fifty-two porticoes, five granaries, eight

aqueducts or reservoirs of water, four spacious halls

for the meetings of the senate or courts of justice,

fourteen churches, fourteen palaces, and four thou­

sand three hundred and eighty-eight houses, which,

for their size or beauty, deserved to be distinguished

from the multitude of plebeian habitations*.

Population. The populousness of this favoured city was the

next and most serious object of the attention of its

founder. In the dark ages which succeeded the

translation of the empire, the remote and the imme­

diate consequences of that memorable event were

strangely confounded by the vanity of the Greeks,

and the credulity of the Latins. It was asserted and

believed, that all the noble families of Rome, the

senate, and the equestrian order, with their innumera­

ble attendants, had followed their emperor to the

banks of the Propontis; that a spurious race of

strangers and plebeians was left to possess the solitude

of the ancient capital; and that the lands of Italy,

long since converted into gardens, were at once de­

prived of cultivation and inhabitants. In the course

.of this history, such exaggerations will be reduced to

their just value: yet, since the growth of Constan­

tinople cannot be ascribed to the general increase of

mankind and of industry, it must be admitted, that

• See the Notitia. Rome only reckoned 1780 large houses, damns; but the

word must have had a more dignified signification. No insula are mentioned at

Constantinople. The old capital consisted of 424 streets, the new of Ml.

