OF THE ROMAN EMPIRIC. 221

and advantages which rendered them respectable in chap.

the eyes of the world *. XVIIJ"

A just and severe censure has been inflicted on Heprohibits

the law which prohibited the Christians from teach- tians from

ing the arts of grammar and rhetoric t. The motives

alleged by the emperor to justify this partial and op­

pressive measure might command, during his . life­

time, the silence of slaves and the applause of flat­

terers. Julian abuses the ambiguous meaning of a

word which might be indifferently applied to the

language and the religion of the Greeks: he con­

temptuously observes, that the men who exalt the

merit of implicit faith are unfit to claim or to enjoy

the advantages of science; and he vainly contends,

that if they refuse to adore the gods of Homer anil

Demosthenes, they ought to content themselves with

expounding Luke and Matthew in the churches of

the Galilaeans. In all the cities of the Roman world,

the education of the youth was intrusted to masters

of grammar and rhetoric; who wore elected by the

magistrates, maintained at the public expense, and

distinguished by many lucrative and honourable pri­

vileges. The edict of Julian appears to have included

the physicians, and professors of all the liberal arts;

and the emperor, who reserved to himself the appro­

bation of the candidates, was authorised by the laws

to corrupt, or to punish, the religious constancy of

the most learned of the Christians. As soon as the

resignation of the more obstinate teachers had esta-

Wished the unrivalled dominion of the Pagan sophists,

Julian invited the rising generation to resort with

freedom to the public schools, in a just confidence,

that their tender minds would receive the impressions

of literature and idolatry. If the greatest part of the

* These laws which affected the clergy may be found in the slight hints of  
Julian himself (Epist , lii.), in the vague declamations of Gregory (Orat.
iii. p.

86, 870, ana m tne positive assertions of Sozomen (1. v. c. 5.).

t Inclemens . . . percnni obruendum silentio. Ammian. xxii. 10. xxv. 5.

