OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 37

that were raised the nearest to the level of those un- chap.

worthy favourites, were in some measure disgraced XIV'

by the title of honour which they were allowed to

assume. It was in vain that Constantine repeated

the most dreadful menaces of fire and sword against

the Borderers who should dare to desert their colours,

to connive at the inroads of the Barbarians, or to

participate in the spoil*. The mischiefs which flow

from injudicious counsels are seldom removed by the

application of partial severities: and though succeed­

ing princes laboured to restore the strength and

numbers of the frontier garrisons, the empire, till the

last moment of its dissolution, continued to languish

under the mortal wound which had been so rashly or

so weakly inflicted by the hand of Constantine.

The same timid policy, of dividing whatever is Reduction

united, of reducing whatever is eminent, of dreading iegi0n8.

every active power, and of expecting that the most

feeble will prove the most obedient, seems to pervade

the institutions of several princes, and particularly

those of Constantine. The martial pride of the

legions, whose victorious camps had so often been the

scene of rebellion, was nourished by the memory of

their past exploits, and the consciousness of their

actual strength. As long as they maintained their

ancient establishment of six thousand men, they sub­

sisted, under the reign of Diocletian, each of them

singly, a visible and important object in the military

history of the Roman empire. A few years after­

wards, these gigantic bodies were shrunk to a very

diminutive size; and when seven legions, with some

auxiliaries, defended the city of Amida against the

Persians, the total garrison, with the inhabitants of

both sexes, and the peasants of the deserted country,

• Cod. Theod. 1. vii. tit. i. leg. 1. tit. xii. leg. 1. See Howell's Hist. of
the

World, vol. ii. p. 19. That learned historian, who is not sufficiently known,

labours to justify the character and policy of Constantino.

D 3

