OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 247

serve and register the most trifling presages, from chap.

which, according to the rules of divination, any XIX,

knowledge of futurity could be derived *. He in­

formed Libanius of his progress as far as Hierapolis,

by an elegant epistle f, which displays the facility

of his genius, and his tender friendship for the sophist

of Antioch.

Hierapolis, situate almost on the banks of the His design

Euphrates t, had been appointed for the general ren- pelr°^ ng

dezvous of the Roman troops, who immediately passed

the great river on a bridge of boats, which was pre­

viously constructed §. If the inclinations of Julian

had been similar to those of his predecessor, he might

have wasted the active and important season of the

year in the circus of Samosata, or in the churches of

Edessa. But as the warlike emperor, instead of Con-

stantius, had chosen Alexander for his model, he

advanced without delay to Carrhae ||, a very ancient

city of Mesopotamia, at the distance of fourscore

miles from Hierapolis. The temple of the Moon

attracted the devotion of Julian; but the halt of a

few days was principally employed in completing the

immense preparations of the Persian war. The secret

of the expedition had hitherto remained in his own

breast; but as Carrhae is the point of separation of

the two great roads, he could no longer conceal,

whether it was his design to attack the dominions of

Sapor on the side of the Tigris, or on that of the

• Julian (epist. xxviii.) kept a regular account of all the fortunate omens;
but

he suppresses the inauspicious signs, which Ammianus (xxiii. 2.) has carefully

recorded.

f Julian, epist. xxvii. p. 399—402.

^ I take the earliest opportunity of acknowledging my obligations to M. d'An-

ville, for his recent geography of the Euphrates and Tigris (Paris, 1780, in
4to.)

which particularly illustrates the expedition of Julian.

§ There are three passages within a few miles of each other; 1. Zeugma, ce­

lebrated by the ancients; 2. Bir, frequented by the modems; and, 3. The bridge

of Menbigz, or Hierapolis, at the distance of four parasangs from the city.

|| Haran, or Carrhae, was the ancient residence of the Sabajans, and of Abra­

ham. See the Index Geographicus of Schultens (ad calcem Vit. Saladin.), a

work from which I have obtained much Oriental knowledge, concerning the an­

cient and modern geography of Syria and the adjacent countries.

R 4

