416 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. rebels. But his feeble efforts announced his degenerate

XXIL spirit and desperate situation; and deprived him of

the resources, which he still might have found in the

support of his subjects and allies. The armies of

Gaul, instead of opposing the march of Maximus, re­

ceived him with joyful and loyal acclamations; and

the shame of the desertion was transferred from the

people to the prince. The troops, whose station more

immediately attached them to the service of the palace,

abandoned the standard of Gratian the first time that

it was displayed in the neighbourhood of Paris. The

emperor of the West fled towards Lyons, with a train

of only three hundred horse; and, in the cities along

the road, where he hoped to find a refuge, or at least

a passage, he was taught, by cruel experience, that

every gate is shut against the unfortunate. Yet he

might still have reached, in safety, the dominions of

his brother; and soon have returned with the forces

of Italy and the East; if he had not suffered himself

to be fatally deceived by the perfidious governor of

the Lyonese province. Gratian was amused by pro­

testations of doubtful fidelity, and the hopes of a sup­

port, which could not be effectual; till the arrival of

Andragathius, the general of the cavalry of Maximus,

put an end to his suspense. That resolute officer

executed, without remorse, the orders, or the inten­

tions, of the usurper. Gratian, as he rose from sup-

a. d. 383. per, was delivered into the hands of the assassin ; and

Aug'25, his body was denied to the pious and pressing en­

treaties of his brother Valentinian. The death of

the emperor was followed by that of his powerful ge­

neral Mellobaudes, the king of the Franks; who

maintained, to the last moment of his life, the ambi­

guous reputation, which is the just recompense of

obscure and subtle policy. These executions might

be necessary to the public safety : but the successful

usurper, whose power was acknowledged by all the

