138 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. who was secretly anxious for the conclusion of the

XVI

peace. entertained some hopes that the dignity of the

first of these ministers, the dexterity of the second,

and the rhetoric of the third, would persuade the

Persian monarch to abate the rigour of his demands.

But the progress of their negotiation was opposed and

defeated by the hostile arts of Antoninus, a Roman

subject of Syria, who had fled from oppression, and

was admitted into the councils of Sapor, and even to

the royal table, where, according to the custom of the

Persians, the most important business was frequently

discussed*. The dexterous fugitive promoted his

interest by the same conduct which gratified his re­

venge. He incessantly urged the ambition of his

new master, to embrace the favourable opportunity

when the bravest of the Palatine troops were em­

ployed with the emperor in a distant war on the Da­

nube. He pressed Sapor to invade the exhausted and

defenceless provinces of the East, with the numerous

armies of Persia, now fortified by the alliance and

accession of the fiercest Barbarians. The ambassadors

of Rome retired without success, and a second em­

bassy, of a still more honourable rank, was detained in

strict confinement, and threatened either with death

or exile.

M^>ta-f ^e mintary historian f, who was himself de-

mia by spatched to observe the army of the Persians, as they

AJk'359. were preparing to construct a bridge of boats over the

Tigris, beheld from an eminence the plain of Assyria,

as far as the edge of the horizon, covered with men,

with horses, and with arms. Sapor appeared in the

front, conspicuous by the splendour of his purple.

* This circumstance, as it is noticed by Ammianus, serves to prove the vera­  
city of Herodotus (1. i. c 133.), and the permanency of .the Persian manners.

In every age the Persians have been addicted to intemperance, and the wines of

Shirazhave triumphed over the law of Mahomet. Brisson de Regno Pers. 1. ii.

p. 462—472. and Chardin, Voyages en Perse, torn. iii. p. 90.

t Ammian. 1. xviii. 6,7, 8. 10.

