OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 185

have been productive of fatal consequences. Julian chap.

had received the submission of two legions and a co- XVI1'

hort of archers, who were stationed at Sirmium;

but he suspected, with reason, the fidelity of those

troops, which had been distinguished by the em­

peror; and it was thought expedient, under the pre­

tence of the exposed state of the Gallic frontier, to

dismiss them from the most important scene of ac­

tion. They advanced, with reluctance, as far as the

confines of Italy; but as they dreaded the length of

the way, and the savage fierceness of the Germans,

they resolved, by the instigation of one of their tri­

bunes, to halt at Aquileia, and to erect the banners

of Constantius on the walls of that impregnable city.

The vigilance of Julian perceived at once the extent

of the mischief, and the necessity of applying an im­

mediate remedy. By his order, Jovinus led back a

part of the army into Italy; and the siege of Aqui­

leia was formed with diligence, and prosecuted with

vigour. But the legionaries, who seemed to have

rejected the yoke of discipline, conducted the de­

fence of the place with skill and perseverance; in,r

vited the rest of Italy to imitate the example of their

courage and loyalty; and threatened the retreat of

Julian, if he should be forced to yield to the supe­

rior numbers of the armies of the East.

But the humanity of Julian was preserved from ^corT*

the cruel alternative, which he pathetically laments, stantius,

of destroying, or of being himself destroyed: and nov.'s.

the seasonable death of Constantius delivered the

Roman empire from the calamities of civil war. The

approach of winter could not detain the monarch at

Antioch; and his favourites durst not oppose his

impatient desire of revenge. A slight fever, which

was perhaps occasioned by the agitation of his spirits, .

was increased by the fatigues of the journey; and

Constantius was obliged to halt at the little town of • ,.

