OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 369

assigned for their residence and education; and as chap.

the numerous train of hostages or captives passed XXI'

through the cities, their gay and splendid apparel,

their robust and martial figure, excited the surprise

and envy of the Provincials. But the stipulation, the

most offensive to the Goths, and the most important

to the Romans, was shamefully eluded. The Bar­

barians, who considered their arms as the ensigns of

honour, and the pledges of safety, were disposed to

offer a price, which the lust or avarice of the Imperial

officers was easily tempted to accept. To preserve

their arms, the haughty warriors consented, with some

reluctance, to prostitute their wives or their daughters.

The Goths, with arms in their hands, were permitted

to enter the boats; and when their strength was col­

lected on the other side of the river, the immense

camp which was spread over the plains and the hills

of the Lower Maesia assumed a threatening and even

hostile aspect. The leaders of the Ostrogoths, Ala-

theus and Saphrax, the guardians of their infant king,

appeared soon afterwards on the northern banks of

the Danube; and immediately despatched their ambas­

sadors to the court of Antioch, to solicit, with the

same professions of allegiance and gratitude, the same

favour which had been granted to the suppliant Visi­

goths. The absolute refusal of Valens suspended

their progress, and discovered the repentance, the

suspicions, and the fears, of the Imperial council.

An undisciplined and unsettled nation of Bar-Their dis-

barians required the firmest temper, and the most

dexterous management. The daily subsistence of

near a million of extraordinary subjects could be sup­

plied only by constant and skilful diligence, and might

continually be interrupted by mistake or accident.

The insolence or the indignation of the Goths, if

they conceived themselves to be the objects either of

fear or of contempt, might urge them to the most

VOL. II. b B

