OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 455

again marched, with confidence, to surprise the camp chap.

of a tyrant, whose principal officers appeared to dis- XXIL

trust, either the justice, or the success, of his arms.

In the heat of the battle, a violent tempest, such as

is often felt among the Alps, suddenly arose from the

East. The army of Theodosius was sheltered by their

position from the impetuosity of the wind, which blew

a cloud of dust in the faces of the enemy, disordered

their ranks, wrested their weapons from their hands,

and diverted, or repelled, their ineffectual javelins.

This accidental advantage was skilfully improved;

the violence of the storm was magnified by the super­

stitious terrors of the Gauls; and they yielded with­

out shame to the invisible powers of heaven, who

seemed to militate on the side of the pious emperor.

His victory was decisive; and the deaths of his two

rivals were distinguished only by the difference of

their characters. The rhetorician Eugenius, who

had almost acquired the dominion of the world, was

reduced to implore the mercy of the conqueror; and

the unrelenting soldiers separated his head from his

body, as he lay prostrate at the feet of Theodosius.

Arbogastes, after the loss of a battle, in which he had

discharged the duties of a soldier and a general, wan­

dered several days among the mountains. But when

he was convinced that his cause was desperate, and

his escape impracticable, the intrepid Barbarian imi­

tated the example of the ancient Romans, and turned

his sword against his own breast. The fate of the

empire was determined in a narrow corner of Italy;

and the legitimate successor of the house of Valen-

tinian embraced the archbishop of Milan, and gra­

ciously received the submission of the provinces of

the West. Those provinces were involved in the

guilt of rebellion; while the inflexible courage of

Ambrose alone had resisted the claims of successful

usurpation. With a manly freedom, which might

g g 4

