OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 367

with the titles of praefects and generals, dissembled chap.

or disregarded the terrors of this national emigration; XXI"

so extremely different from the partial and accidental .

colonies, which had been received on the extreme

limits of the empire. But they applauded the libe­

rality of fortune, which had conducted, from the most

distant countries of the globe, a numerous and invin­

cible army of strangers, to defend the throne of Va-

lens; who might now add to the royal treasures, the

immense sums of gold supplied by the provincials

to compensate their annual proportion of recruits.

The prayers of the Goths were granted, and their

service was accepted by the Imperial court; and

orders were immediately despatched to the civil. and

- military governors of the Thracian diocese, to make  
the necessary preparations for the passage and sub­

sistence of a great people, till a proper and sufficient

territory could be allotted for their future residence.

The liberality of the emperor was accompanied, how­

ever, with two harsh and rigorous conditions, which

prudence might justify on the side of the Romans;

but which distress alone could extort from the indig­

nant Goths. Before they passed the Danube, they

were required to deliver their arms: and it was in­

sisted that their children should be taken from them,

and dispersed through the provinces of Asia; where

they might be civilized by the arts of education, and

serve as hostages to secure the fidelity of their parents.

During this suspense of a doubtful and distant They are

negotiation, the impatient Goths made some rash o™nrs^e*d

attempts to pass the Danube, without the permission P™"£*

of the government, whose protection they had im- Rornan

plored. Their motions were strictly observed by ^P"6'

the vigilance of the troops which were stationed along

the river; and their foremost detachments were de­

feated with considerable slaughter: yet such were

the timid councils of the reign of Valens, that the

