286 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. to retire with their effects; but the conqueror rigor-

XIX" ously insisted, that the Romans should for ever

abandon the king and kingdom of Armenia. A

peace, or rather a long truce of thirty years, was

stipulated between the hostile nations; the faith of

the treaty was ratified by solemn oaths, and religious

ceremonies; and hostages of distinguished rank were

reciprocally delivered to secure the performance of

the conditions *.

The weak- The sophist of Antioch, who saw with indignation

disgrace of the sceptre of his hero in the feeble hand of a Chns-

Jovian. j.ian successor, professes to admire the moderation

of Sapor, in contenting himself with so small a por­

tion of the Roman empire. If he had stretched as

far as the Euphrates the claims of his ambition, he

might have been secure, says Libanius, of not meet­

ing with a refusal. If he had fixed, as the boundary

of Persia, the Orontes, the Cydnus, the Sangarius,

or even the Thracian Bosphorus, flatterers would not

have been wanting in the court of Jovian to convince

the timid monarch, that his remaining provinces

would still afford the most ample gratifications of

power and luxuryt. Without adopting in its full

force this malicious insinuation, we must acknow­

ledge that the conclusion of so ignominious a treaty

was facilitated by the private ambition of Jovian.

The obscure domestic, exalted to the throne by for­

tune, rather than by merit, was impatient to escape

from the hands of the Persians; that he might pre­

vent the designs of Procopius, who commanded the

army of Mesopotamia, and established his doubtful

reign over the legions and provinces, which were

• The treaty of Dura is recorded with grief or indignation by Ammianus

(xxv. 7,), Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 142. p.364.), Zosimus (l.iii.p.
190,191.),

Gregory Nazianzen i,Orat. iv. p. 117, 118, who imputes the distress to Julian,

the deliverance to Jovian), andEutropius (x. 17,). The last-mentioned writer,

who was present in a military station, ,styles this peace necessariam quidem
sed

ignobilem.

t Libanius, Orat. Parent , c. 143. p. 364, 365.

