OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 9

of Thrace and Bithynia, which languish under the chap.

weight of Turkish oppression, still exhibit a rich X1v'

prospect of vineyards, of gardens, and of plentiful

harvests; and the Propontis has ever been renowned

for an inexhaustible store of the most exquisite fish,

that are. taken in their stated seasons, without skill, .

and almost without labour. But when the passages

of the Streights were thrown open for trade, they

alternately admitted the natural and artificial riches

of the north and south, of the Euxine, and of the

Mediterranean. Whatever rude commodities were

collected in the forests of Germany and Scythia, as

far as the sources of the Tanais and the Borysthenes;

whatsoever was manufactured by the skill of Europe

or Asia; the corn of Egypt, and the gems and spices

of the farthest India, were brought by the varying

winds'into the port of Constantinople, which, for

many ages, attracted the commerce of the ancient

world.

The prospect of beauty, of safety, and of wealth, Foundation

united in a single spot, was sufficient to justify the" e

choice of Constantine.

In the actual state of the city *, the palace and gar- Extent.

dens of the Seraglio occupy the eastern promontory,

the first of the seven hills, and cover about one hun­

dred and fifty acres of our own measure. The seat

of Turkish jealousy and despotism is erected on the

foundations of a Grecian republic; but it may be

supposed that the Byzantins were tempted by the

conveniency of the harbour to extend their habita­

tions on that side beyond the modern limits of the

Seraglio. The new walls of Constantine stretched

* Sae in the Memoires de l'Academie, torn. xxxv. p. 747—758, a dissertation  
of AT. d'Anville on'the extent of Constantinople. He takes the plan inserted
in

the Imperiuin Orientale of Banduri as the most complete; but, by a series of

very nice observations, he reduces the extravagant proportion of the scale,
and

instead of 9500, determines the circumference of the city as consisting of
about

7800 French toises.

