460 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP. the sacrifice of guiltless warns, was prohibited throughout the whole
empire, by

XXII.' express edict in 390. Polytheism appears from this period to haye sunk
so

* rapidly in all the provinces, that twenty-eight years after the death of the great  
Xheodosius, we find in the Theodosian code of the second emperor of that r

the following words: Pagan OS quos supersunt, quanquam jum nuDos ess

miu. This expression was undoubtedly rather too general, but we may c

from it, that the number of pagans was at that time become very r~

able. Ed.

Among many anecdotes respecting the destruction of the objects of j

ship, there is one which is so well told by Mr. Gibbon, that tie editor thinks
the

reader will not be displeased at its insertion. It relates to the celebrated
statue of

Serapis at Alexandria.

"The colossal statue of Serapis was involved in the ruin of his temple and
reli­

gion. A great number of plates of different metals, artificially joined
together,

composed the majestic figure of the deity, who touched on either side the
walls of

the sanctuary. The aspect of Serapis, his sitting posture, and the sceptre,
which

he bore in his left hand, were extremely similar to the ordinary
representations of

Jupiter.

"He was distinguished from Jupiter by the basket, or bushel, which was placed

on his head; and by the emblematic monster which he held in his right hand:

the had and body of a serpent branching into three tails, which were again
ter­

minated by the triple heads of a dog, a lion, and a wolf. It was confidently

affirmed, that if any impious hand should dare to violate the majesty of the
god,

the heavens and the earth would instantly return to their original chaos.

"An intrepid soldier animated by zeal, and armed with a weighty battle-axe,

ascended the ladder; and even the Christian multitude expected, with some

anxiety, the event of the combat , He aimed a vigorous stroke against the
cheek

of Serapis; the cheek fell to the ground, the thunder was still silent, and
both the

heavens and the earth continued to preserve their accustomed order and
tranquil­

lity. The victorious soldier repeated his blows, the huge idol was overthrown,

and broken in pieces; and the limbs of Serapis were ignominiously dragged

through the streets of Alexandra. His mangled carcass was burnt in the am­

phitheatre, amidst the shouts of the populace; and many persons attributed
their

conversion to this discovery of the impotence of their tutelar deity. The
popular

modes of religion, that propose any visible and material objects of worship,
have

the advantage of adapting and familiarizing themselves to the senses of
mankind:

but this advantage is counterbalanced by the various and inevitable accidents
to

which the faith of the idolater is exposed. It is scarcely possible that, in
every

disposition of mind, he should preserve his implicit reverence for the idols,
or the

relics, which the naked eye, and the profane hand, are unable to distinguish
from

the most common productions of art, or nature; and if, in the hour of danger,

their secret and miraculous virtue does not operate for their own
preservation, he

scorns the vain apologies of his priests, and justly derides the objects, and
the folly,

of his superstitious attachments. After the fall of Serapis, some hopes were
still

entertained by the pagans, that the Nile would refuse his annual supply to the

impious masters of Egypt; and the extraordinary delay of the inundation seemed

to announce the displeasure of the river-god. But this delay was soon compen­

sated by the rapid swell of the waters. They suddenly rose to such an unusual

height, as to comfort the discontented party with the pleasing expectation of
a de­

luge; till the peaceful river again subsided to the well,known and fertilizing
level

of sixteen cubits, or about thirty English feet."

