OF THE ItOMAN EMPIRE. 103

of nations, were put in irons; and the contending chap.

powers prepared to wage an implacable war *. xv'

Such was the conduct, and such perhaps was the Deposes

duty, of the brother of Constans towards the per- Xfixssb.

fidious usurper of Gaul. The situation and character Dec,25,

of Vetranio admitted of milder measures; and the

policy of the eastern emperor was directed to disunite

his antagonist, and, to separate the forces of Ulyricum

from the cause of rebellion. It was an easy task to

deceive the frankness and simplicity of Vetranio, who,

fluctuating some time between the opposite views of

honour and interest, displayed to the world the in­

sincerity of his temper, and was insensibly engaged

in the snares of an artful negotiation. Constantius

acknowledged him as a legitimate and equal colleague

in the empire, on condition that he would renounce

his disgraceful alliance with Magnentius, and appoint

a place of interview on the frontiers of their respective

provinces; where they might pledge their friendship

by mutual vows of fidelity, and regulate by common

consent the future operations of the civil war. In

consequence of this agreement, Vetranio advanced to

the city of Sardica, at the head of twenty thousand

horse, and of a more numerous body of infantry; a

power so far superior to the forces of Constantius,

that the Ulyrian emperor appeared to command the

life and fortunes of his rival, who, depending on the

success of his private negotiations, had seduced the

troops, and undermined the throne, of Vetranio.

The chiefs, who had secretly embraced the party of

Constantius, prepared in his favour a public spectacle,

calculated to discover and inflame the passions of

the multitude. The united armies were commanded

to assemble in a large plain near the city. In the

centre, according to the rules of ancient discipline, a

military tribunal, or rather scaffold, was erected, from

* See Peter the Patrician, in the Excerpta Legationum, p. 27.

H 4

