OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 865

rapid pursuit, and invincible valour^ of the Barbarians chap.

of Scythia. Under the command of Fritigern and XXI'

Alavivus, the body of the nation hastily advanced to

the banks of the great river, and implored the pro­

tection of the Roman emperor of the East. Athana-

ric himself, still anxious to avoid the guilt of perjury,

retired with a band of faithful followers into the

mountainous country of Caucaland; which appears

to have been guarded, and almost concealed, by the

impenetrable forests of Transylvania *.

After Valens had terminated the Gothic war with The Goth«

some appearance of glory and success, he made a pro- the protee-

gress through his dominions of Asia, and at length

fixed his residence in the capital of Syria. The five a.d. 376.

years t which he spent at Antioch were employed to

watch, from a secure distance, the hostile designs of

the Persian monarch; to check the depredations of

the Saracens and Isaurians; to enforce, by arguments

more prevalent than those of reason and eloquence,

the belief of the Arian theology; and to satisfy his

anxious suspicions by the promiscuous execution of

the innocent and the guilty. But the attention of

the emperor was most seriously engaged, by the im­

portant intelligence which he received from the civil

and military officers who were intrusted with the

defence of the Danube. He was informed, that the

North was agitated by a furious tempest; that the

irruption of the Huns, an unknown and monstrous

race of savages, had subverted the power of the Goths;

and that the suppliant multitudes of that warlike na­

tion, whose pride was now humbled in the dust, co­

vered a space of many miles along the banks of the

river. With outstretched arms, and pathetic lament­

ations, they loudly deplored their past misfortunes

* Ammianus (xxxi. 3.) and Jornandes (de Rebus Geticis, c. 24.) describe the  
subversion of the Gothic empire by the Huns.

t The chronology of Ammianus is obscure and imperfect , Tillemont has

laboured to clear and settle the Annals of Valens.

