Of THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 243

emperor; and the spirit of Antioch was manifested chap.

by the connivance of the magistrates, and the ap- X1x'

plause of the multitude. The disciple of Socrates

was too deeply affected by these popular insults; but

the monarch, endowed with quick sensibility, and

possessed of absolute power, refused his passions the

gratification of revenge. A tyrant might have pro­

scribed, without distinction, the lives and fortunes

of the citizens of Antioch; and the unwarlike Sy­

rians must have patiently submitted to the lust, the

rapaciousness, and the cruelty, of the faithful legions

of Gaul. A milder sentence might have deprived

the capital of the East of its honours and privileges;

and the courtiers, perhaps the subjects, of Julian,

would have applauded an act of justice, which asserted

the dignity of the supreme magistrate of the republic.

But instead of abusing, or exerting, the authority

of the state, to revenge his personal injuries, Julian juiian

contented himself with an inoffensive mode of retali- f°!"P°!es

& Satire

ation, which it would be in the power of few princes ^"jj18^

to employ. He had been insulted by satires and

libels; in his turn be composed, under the title of

the Enemy of the Beard, an ironical confession of

his own faults, and a severe satire of the licentious

and effeminate manners of Antioch. This Imperial

reply was publicly exposed before the gates of the

palace; and the Misopogon* still remains a sin­

gular monument of the resentment, the wit, the

humanity, and the indiscretion, of Julian. Though

he affected to laugh, he could not forgive t. His

contempt was expressed, and his revenge might be

* On the subject of the Misopogon, see Ammianus (xxii. 14.), Libanius  
(Orat. Parentalis, c xcix. p. 323.), Gregory Nazianzen (Orat. iv. p. 133.),
and

the Chronicle of Antioch, by John Malela (torn. ii. p. 15, 16.). I have
essential

obligations to the translation and notes of the Abbe de la Bleterie (Vie de
Jovien,

torn. ii. p. 1—138.).

f Ammianus very justly remarks, Coactus dissimulare pro tempore ira. suffla-

batur interna. The elaborate irony of Julian at length bursts forth into
serious

and direct invective.

