OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 85

mised, as subjects in peace, and as soldiers in war, the chap.

most inviolable fidelity to the empire which should x'

graciously receive them into its bosom. . According

to the maxims adopted by Probus and his successors,

the offers of this Barbarian colony were eagerly ac足

cepted; and a competent portion of lands in the

provinces of Pannonia, Thrace, Macedonia, and Italy,

were immediately assigned for the habitation and

subsistence of three hundred thousand Sarmatians *.

By chastising the pride of the Goths, and by ac- peatiynd

cepting the homage of a suppliant nation, Constantine

Constantine,

asserted the majesty of the Roman empire; and jj?'Jf5'

the ambassadors of ^Ethiopia, Persia, and the most

remote countries of India, congratulated the peace

and prosperity of his government. If he reckoned,

among the favours of fortune, the death of his eldest

son, of his nephew, and perhaps of his wife, he en足

joyed an uninterrupted flow of private as well as

public felicity, till the thirtieth year of his reign; a

period which none of his predecessors, since Au足

gustus, had been permitted to celebrate. Constantine

survived that solemn festival about ten months; and,

at the mature age of sixty-four, after a short illness,

he ended his memorable life at the palace of Aquyrion, a. d. 337,

in the suburbs of Nicomedia, whither he had retired May 22"

for the benefit of the air, and with the hope of re足

cruiting his exhausted strength by the use of the

warm baths. The excessive demonstrations of grief,

or at least of mourning, surpassed whatever had been

practised on any former occasion. Notwithstanding

* The Gothic and Sannatian wars are related in so broken and imperfect a  
manner, that I have been obliged to compare the following writers, who
mutually

supply, correct, and illustrate each other. Those who will take the same trou-

. ble may acquire a right of criticising my narrative. Ammianus, L xvii. c.
12.

Anonym. Valesian. p. 715. Eutropius, x. 7. Sextus Rufus de Provinces, c

26. Julian. Orat. i. p. 9. and Spanheim Comment. p. 94. Hieronym. in Chron.

Euseb. in Vit. Constantin. l . iv. c 6. Socrates, 1. i. c. 18. Sozomen, 1. i.
c. 8.

Zosimus, 1. it p. 108. Jornandes de Reb. Geticis, c. 22. Isadoras in Chron.

p. 709; in Hist. Gothorum Grotii. Constantin. Porphyrogenitus de Admini-

sttat. Imperii. c. 53. p. 208. edit. Meursii.

G 3

