OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 205

and the stupendous miracle, which convinced the chap.

senate and people of Rome that the lump of clay, xviIL

which their ambassadors had transported over the

seas, was endowed with life, and sentiment, and

divine power*. For the truth of this prodigy he

appeals to the public monuments of the city, and

censures with some acrimony the sickly and affected

taste of those men, who impertinently derided the

sacred traditions of their ancestors. But as those

traditions of pagan mythology were variously related,

the sacred interpreters were at liberty to select the

most convenient circumstances; and as they trans­

lated an arbitrary cipher, they could extract from

any fable any sense which was adapted to their

favourite system of religion and philosophy. The

lascivious form of a naked Venus was tortured into

the discovery of some moral precept, or some phy­

sical truth; and the indecent fable of Atys ex­

plained the revolution of the sun between the tropics,

or the separation of the human soul from vice and

error t.

By the hands of Maximus, the boldest and most

skilful master of the Theurgic science, Julian was

secretly initiated at Ephesus, in the twentieth year

of his age. His residence at Athens confirmed this

unnatural alliance of philosophy and superstition.

He obtained the privilege of a solemn initiation into

the mysteries of Eleusis, which, amidst the general

decay of the Graecian worship, still retained some

vestiges of their primaeval sanctity; and such was

the zeal of Julian, that he afterwards invited the

Eleusinian pontiff to the court of Gaul, for the sole

* The Idaean mother landed in Italy about the end of the second Punic war.  
+ See the fifth oration of Julian.

The true religion of Julian may be deduced from the Caesars, p. 308. with

Spanheim's notes and illustrations, from the fragments in Cyril, 1. ii. p. 57,
58."

and especially from the theological oration in Solem Regem, p. 130—158. ad­

dressed, in the confidence of friendship, to the praefect Sallust.

