4 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. history, than in the fables, of antiquity *., A crowd

'of temples and of votive altars profusely scattered

along its steep and woody banks, attested the un-

skilfulness, the terrors, and the devotion of the

Grecian navigators, who, after the example of the

Argonauts, explored the dangers of the inhospitable

Euxine. On these banks tradition long preserved

the memory of the palace of Phineus, infested by

the obscene harpies t; and of the sylvan reign of

Amycus, who defied the son of Leda to the combat

of the Cestus. The streights of the Bosphorus are

terminated by the Cyanean rocks, which, according

to the description of the poets, had once floated on

the face of the waters; and were destined by the

gods to protect the entrance of the Euxine against

the eye of profane curiosity. From the Cyanean

rocks to the point and harbour of Byzantium, the

winding length of the Bosphorus extends about six­

teen miles, and its most ordinary breadth may be

computed at about one mile and a half. The new

castles of Europe and Asia are constructed, on either

continent, upon the foundations of two celebrated

temples, of Serapis and of Jupiter Urius. The old

castles, a work of the Greek emperors, command

the narrowest part of the channel, in a place where

the opposite banks advance within five hundred paces

of each other. These fortresses were restored and

strengthened by Mahomet the Second, when he

meditated the siege of Constantinople: but the

Turkish conqueror was most probably ignorant, that

near two thousand years before his reign, Darius

* The Bosphorus has been very minutely described by Dionysius of Byzan­  
tium, who lived in the time of Dornitian (Hudson Geograph. Minor. torn. iii.),

and by Gilles or Gyllius, a French traveller of the XVIth century. Tournefort

tLettre XV.) seems to have used his own eyes and the learning of Gyllius.

t There are very few conjectures so happy as that of Le Clerc (Bibliotheque

Universelle, torn. i. p. 148.), who supposes that the harpies were only
locusts.

The Syriac or Phoenician name of those insects, their noisy flight, the stench

and devastation which they occasion, and the north wind which drives them into

the sea, all contribute to form the striking resemblance.

