OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 901

The invitation of the ministers and generals at chap.

Nice was of little moment, unless it were confirmed xx"

by the voice of the army. The aged Sallust, who had He is

long observed the irregular fluctuations of popular ledg^Tby

assemblies, proposed, under pain of death, that none*fD?364

of those persons, whose rank in the service might ex- Feb. 26,

cite a party in their favour, should appear in public,

on the day of the inauguration. Yet such was the

prevalence of ancient superstition, that a whole day

was voluntarily added to this dangerous interval,

because it happened to be the intercalation of the

Bissextile. At length, when the hour was supposed

to be propitious, Valentinian showed himself from

a lofty tribunal: the judicious choice was applauded;

and the new prince was solemnly invested with the

diadem and the purple, amidst the acclamations of

the troops, who were disposed in martial order round

the tribunal. But when he stretched forth his hand

to address the armed multitude, a busy whisper was

accidently started in the ranks, and insensibly swelled

into a loud and imperious clamour, that he should

name, without delay, a colleague in the empire. The

intrepid calmness of Valentinian obtained silence, and

commanded respect; and he thus addressed the assem­

bly: "A few minutes since it was in your power,

"fellow soldiers, to have left me in the obscurity

"of a private station. Judging, from the testimony

"of my past life, that I deserved to reign, you have

*' placed me on the throne. It is now my duty to  
ft consult the safety and interest of the republic.—

"The weight of the universe is undoubtedly too

"great for the hands of a feeble mortal. I am con-

"scious of the limits of my abilities, and the uncer-

"tainty of my life: and far from declining, I am

"anxious to solicit, the assistance of a worthy col-

"league. But, where discord may be fatal, the

"choice of a faithful friend requires mature and

