OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 448

the ministers of Theodosius performed with reluct- chap.

ance the cruel task which had been assigned to them; XX1X'

they dropped a gentle tear over the calamities of the

people; and they listened with reverence to the

pressing solicitations of the monks and hermits, who

descended in swarms from the mountains. Helle-

bicus and Caesarius were persuaded to suspend the

execution of their sentence; and it was agreed that

the former should remain at Antioch, while the

latter returned, with all possible speed, to Constan­

tinople, and presumed once more to consult the will

of his sovereign. The resentment of Theodosius had ^J^7

already subsided; the deputies of the people, both dosius.

the bishop and the orator, had obtained a favourable

audience ; and the reproaches of the emperor were the

complaints of injured friendship, rather than the stern

menaces of pride and power. A free and general

pardon was granted to the city and citizens of An­

tioch; the prison-doors were thrown open; senators,

who despaired of their lives, recovered the possession

of their houses and estates; and the capital of the

East was restored to the enjoyment of her ancient

dignity and splendour. Theodosius condescended

to praise the senate of Constantinople, who had ge­

nerously interceded for their distressed brethren : he

rewarded the eloquence of Hilarius with the govern­

ment of Palestine; and dismissed the bishop of An­

tioch with the warmest expressions of his respect and

gratitude. A thousand new statues arose to the cle- April 25.

mency of Theodosius; the applause of his subjects

was ratified by the approbation of his own heart; and

the emperor confessed, that, if the exercise of justice

is the most important duty, the indulgence of mercy

is the most exquisite pleasure, of a sovereign.

The sedition of Thessalonica is ascribed to a more Sedition

shameful cause, and was productive of much moresacreof

dreadful consequences. That great city, the metro- ^^sal0'

A.D. 390.

