324 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. were furnished by the nations who dwelt along the

xx' shores of the Baltic. They possessed arms and ships,

the art of navigation, and the habits of naval war;

but the difficulty of issuing through the northern

columns of Hercules (which, during several months

of the year, are obstructed with ice) confined their

skill and courage within the limits of a spacious lake.

The rumour of the successful armaments which sailed

from the mouth of the Elbe would soon provoke

them to cross the narrow isthmus of Sleswig, and to

launch their vessels on the great sea. The various

troops of pirates and adventurers, who fought under

the same standard, were insensibly united in a per­

manent society, at first of rapine, and afterwards of

government. A military confederation was gradually

moulded into a national body, by the gentle opera­

tion of marriage and consanguinity; and the adjacent

tribes, who solicited the alliance, accepted the name

and laws, of the Saxons. If the fact were not esta­

blished by the most unquestionable evidence, we

should appear to abuse the credulity of our readers

by the description of the vessels in which the Saxon

pirates ventured to sport in the waves of the German

Ocean, the British Channel, and the Bay of Biscay.

The keel of their large flat-bottomed boats was framed

of light timber, but the sides and upper works con­

sisted only of wicker, with a covering df strong

hides *. In the course of their slow and distant na­

vigations, they must always have been exposed to the

danger, and very frequently to the misfortune, of

shipwreck; and the naval annals of the Saxons were

undoubtedly filled with the accounts of the losses

which they sustained on the coasts of Britain and

Gaul. But the daring spirit of the pirates braved the

* The genius of Cssar imitated, for a particular service, these rude, but light,  
vessels, which were likewise used by the natives of Britain .{Comment. de BelL

Civil. i. 51. and Guichardt, Nouveaux Memoires Militaires, torn. ii. p. 41,
42).

The British vessels would now astonish the genius of Casar.

