OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1<)3

greatest part of his body was covered with hair, the chap.

use of the razor was confined to his head alone; and XVIL

celebrates, with visible complacency, the shaggy and

populous * beard, which he fondly cherished, after

the example of the philosophers of Greece. Had

Julian consulted the simple dictates of reason, the

first magistrate of the Romans would have scorned

the affectation of Diogenes, as well as that of Darius.

. But the work of public reformation would have Chamber of

remained imperfect, if Julian had only corrected thejustice'

abuses, without punishing the crimes, of his pre­

decessor's reign. "We are now delivered," says he,

in a familiar letter to one of his intimate friends,

"we are now surprisingly delivered from the vora-

"cious jaws of the Hydra. I do not mean to apply

"that epithet to my brother Constantius. He is no

"more; may the earth lie light on his head! But

"his artful and cruel favourites studied to deceive

"and exasperate a prince, whose natural mildness

"cannot be praised without some efforts of adulation.

"It is not, however, my intention, that even those

"men should be oppressed: they are accused, and

"they shall enjoy the benefit of a fair and impartial

"trial." To conduct this inquiry, Julian named

six judges of the highest rank in the state and army;

and as he wished to escape the reproach of condemn­

ing his personal enemies, he fixed this extraordinary

tribunal at Chalcedon, on the Asiatic side of the

Bosphorus; and transferred to the commissioners an

absolute power to pronounce and execute their final

sentence, without delay, and without appeal. The

* ■ . .

* In the Misopogon (p. 338, 339.) he draws a very singular picture of him­  
self, and the following words are strangely characteristic; uvto; nooa&axti
tsv

jiaQvv thtov* nuiywvtz . . . ravra to( Jia(?(0VTOVV ayt,^ofj.at Tivv <[9lifwv
octteo ty

^.tyXjjfi toi Sugicuv. The friends of the Abbe de la Bleterie adjured him, in
the

name of the French nation, not to translate this passage, so offensive to
their deli­

cacy (Hist. de Jovien, torn. ii. p. 94.). Iiike him, I have contented myself
with

a transient allusion; but the little animal, which Julian names, is a beast
familiar

to man, and signifies Love.

VOL. II. o

