OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 269

pride or humanity, whether he consulted the sen- chap.

timents of his birth, or the duties of his situation, was'

equally inclined to promote a salutary measure, which

would terminate the calamities of Persia, and secure

the triumph of Rome. He was astonished by the

inflexible firmness of a hero, who remembered, most

unfortunately for himself, and for his country, that

Alexander had uniformly rejected the propositions

of Darius. But as Julian was sensible that the hope

of a safe and honourable peace might cool the ardour

of his troops, he earnestly requested that Hormisdas

would privately dismiss the minister of Sapor, and

conceal this dangerous temptation from the know­

ledge of the camp *.

. The honour, as well as interest, of Julian, forbade He burns

him to consume his time under the impregnable walls Ws fleet'

of Ctesiphon; and as often as he defied the Barba­

rians, who defended the city, to meet him on the open

plain, they prudently replied, that if he desired to

exercise his valour, he might seek the army of the

Great King. He felt the insult, and he accepted the

advice. Instead of confining his servile march to

the banks of the Euphrates and Tigris, he resolved

to imitate the adventurous spirit of Alexander, and <

boldly to advance into the inland provinces, till he

forced his rival to contend with him, perhaps in the

plains of Arbela, for the empire of Asia. The mag­

nanimity of Julian was applauded and betrayed, by

the arts of a noble Persian, who, in the cause of his

country, had generously submitted to act a part full

of danger, of falsehood, and of shame t. With a train

* Libanius, Orat. Parent. c. 130. p. 354. c. 139. p. 361. Socrates, l . iii"  
c. 21. The ecclesiastical historian imputes the refusal of peace to the advice
of

Maximus. Such advice was unworthy of a philosopher; but the philosopher

was likewise a magician, who flattered the hopes and passions of his master.

f The arts of this new Zopyrus (Greg. Nazianzen, Orat , iv. p. 115, 116.),

may derive some credit from the testimony of two abbreviators (Sextus Rufus

and Victor), and the casual hints of Libanius (Orat , Parent. c. 134. p.
357,),

and Ammianus (xxiv. 7.). The course of genuine history is interrupted by a

most unseasonable chasm in the text of Ammianus.

