OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 59

and was perhaps mitigated, by a very humane edict chap.

of Constantine, who, disclaiming the use of racks XIv'

and of scourges, allots a spacious and airy prison for

the place of their confinement *.

These general taxes were imposed and levied by Free gifts.

the absolute authority of the monarchy; but the

occasional offerings of the coronary gold still retained

the name and semblance of popular consent. It was

an ancient custom that the allies of the republic, who

ascribed their safety or deliverance to the success of

the Roman arms; and even the cities of Italy, who

admired the virtues of their victorious general,

adorned the pomp of his triumph by their voluntary

gifts of crowns of gold, which, after the ceremony,

were consecrated in the temple of Jupiter, to remain

a lasting monument of his glory to future ages. The

progress of zeal and flattery soon multiplied the num­

ber, and increased the size, of these popular dona­

tions; and the triumph of Caesar was enriched with

two thousand eight hundred and twenty-two massy

crowns, whose weight amounted to twenty thousand

four hundred and fourteen pounds of gold. This

treasure was immediately melted down by the prudent

dictator, who was satisfied that it would be more

serviceable to his soldiers than to the gods: his ex­

ample was imitated by his successors; and the custom

was introduced, of exchanging these splendid orna­

ments for the more acceptable present of the current

gold coin of the empire f. The spontaneous offering

was at length exacted as the debt of duty; and in­

stead of being confined to the occasion of a triumph,

it was supposed to be granted by the several cities

and provinces of the monarchy, as often as the em-

* Cod. Theod. 1. xi. tit. vii. leg. 3.

t See Lipsius de Magnitud. Romana. 1. ii. c. 9. The Tarragonese Spain

presented the emperor Claudius with a crown of gold of seven, and Gaul with

another of nine, hundred pounds weight. I have followed the rational emenda­

tion of Lipsius.

