OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 219

"province, urged, with vigour and diligence, the chap.

"execution of the work, horrible balls of fire break- xvm,

"ing out near the foundations, with frequent and

"reiterated attacks, rendered the place, from time

"to time, inaccessible to the scorched and blasted

"workmen; and the victorious element continuing

"in this manner obstinately and resolutely bent, as

*' it were, to drive them to a distance, the under-  
"taking was abandoned." Such authority should

satisfy a believing, and must astonish an incredulous,

mind. Yet a philosopher may still require the ori­

ginal evidence of impartial and intelligent spectators.

At this important crisis, any singular accident of

nature would assume the appearance, and produce

the effects, of a real prodigy. This glorious deliver­

ance would be speedily improved and magnified by

the pious art of the clergy of Jerusalem, and the

active credulity of the Christian world; and, at the

distance of twenty years, a Roman historian, careless

of theological disputes, might adorn his work with

the specious and splendid miracle *.

The restoration of the Jewish temple was secretly Partiality

connected with the ruin of the Christian church.of JuUan,

Julian still continued to maintain the freedom of

religious worship, without distinguishing, whether

this universal toleration proceeded from his justice,

or his clemency. He affected to pity the unhappy

Christians, who were mistaken in the most important

object of their lives; but his pity was degraded by

contempt, his contempt was embittered by hatred;

and the sentiments of Julian were expressed in a

style of sarcastic wit, which inflicts a deep and deadly

wound, whenever it issues from the mouth of a

sovereign. As he was sensible that the Christians

* Dr. Lardner, perhaps alone of the Christian critics, presumes to doubt the  
truth of this famous miracle (Jewish and Heathen Testimonies, vol. iv. p. 47—

71.). The silence of Jerorne would lead to a suspicion, that the same story,

which was celebrated at a distance, might be despised on the spot.

