CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

some of the neighbouring gardens were pillaged; and

Belisarius, after chastising the offenders, embraced the

slight occasion, but the decisive moment, of inculcating

the maxims of justice, moderation, and genuine policy.—

4t When I first accepted the commission of subduing

Africa, I depended much less (said the general) on the

numbers, or even the bravery, of my troops, than upon'

the friendly disposition of the natives, and their immortal

hatred to the Vandals. You alone can deprive me of

this hope: if you continue to extort by rapine what

might be purchased for a little money, such acts of vio­

lence will reconcile these implacable enemies, and unite

them in a just and holy league against the invaders of

their country." These exhortations were enforced by a

rigid discipline, of which the soldiers themselves soon

felt and praised the salutary effects. The inhabitants,

instead of deserting their houses, or hiding their corn,

supplied the Romans with a fair and liberal market: the

civil officers of the province continued to exercise their

functions in the name of Justinian; and the clergy, from

motives of conscience and interest, assiduously laboured

to promote the cause of a Catholic emperor. The small

town of Sullecte,r one day's journey from the camp, had

the honour of being foremost to open her gates, and to

resume her ancient allegiance: the larger cities of Leptis

and Adrumetum imitated the example of loyalty as soon

as Belisarius appeared; and he advanced without opposi*

tion as far as Grasse, a palace of the Vandal kings, at the

distance of fifty miles from Carthage. The weary Ro­

mans indulged themselves in the refreshment of shady

groves, cool fountains, and delicious fruits; and^the pre­

ference which Procopius allows to these gardens over any

that he had seen, either in the east or west, may be as*

cribed either to the taste or the fatigue of the historian.

'Sollecteis perhaps the Turra Harmihalis, an old building, now as large as the

tower of London. The march of Belisarius lo Leptis, Adrumetum, &c' is
illustrated

by the campaign of Caesar, (Hirtius de Bello Africano, with the Analyse of
Gni-

ehardt,) and Shaw's Travels, (p. 105—113.)in the same country.

