CHAP. XL.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. &}

Justinian was lost, if the prostitute whom he raised Firmnes. or

from the theatre had not renounced the timidity, as well TheoJu'a•

as the virtues, of her sex. In the midst of a council, •

where Belisarius was present, Theodora alone displayed

the spirit of a hero; and she alone, without apprehend­

ing his future hatred, could save the emperor from the

imminent danger, and his unworthy fears. "If flight

(said the consort of Justinian) were the only means of

safety, yet I should disdain to fly. Death is the con­

dition of our birth; but they who have reigned should

never survive the loss of dignity and dominion. I im­

plore Heaven that I may never be seen, not a day, without

my diadem and purple; that I may no longer behold the

light, when I cease to be saluted with the name of queen.

If you resolve, O Caesar! to fly, you have treasures;

behold the sea, you have ships: but tremble lest the de­

sire of life should expose you to wretched exile and igno­

minious death. For my own part, I adhere to the maxim

of antiquity, that the throne is a glorious sepulchre."

The firmness of a woman restored the courage to deli­

berate and act, and courage soon discovers the resources

of the most desperate situation. It was an easy and a

decisive measure to revive the animosity of the factions;

the blue were astonished at their own guilt and folly, that

a trifling injury should provoke them to conspire with

their implacable enemies against a gracious and liberal

benefactor; they again proclaimed the majesty of Jus-Tiie»edi-

tinian, and the greens, with their upstart emperor, were prenssed.np

left alone in the hippodrome. The fidelity of the guards

was doubtful; but the military force of Justinian con­

sisted in three thousand veterans, who had been trained

to valour and discipline in the Persian and Illyrian wars.

Under the command of Belisarius and Mundus, they

silently marched in two divisions from the palace, forced

their obscure way through narrow passages, expiring

flames, and falling edifices, and burst open, at the same

moment, the two opposite gates of the hippodrome.

