420 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

towns on the continent were overthrown by the Lom­

bards, who beheld with impotent fury a new capital rising

from the waves. The power of the dukes of Naples was

circumscribed by the bay and the adjacent isles, by the

hostile territory of Capua, and by the Roman colony of

Amalphi,1" whose industrious citizens, by the invention

of the mariner's compass, have unveiled the face of the

globe. The three islands of Sardinia, Corsica, and Sicily,

still adhered to the empire; and the acquisition of the

farther Calabria removed the land-mark of Autharis from

the shore of Rhegium to the isthmus of Consentia. In

Sardinia, the savage mountaineers preserved the liberty

and religion of their ancestors; but the husbandmen of

Sicily were chained to their rich and cultivated soil. Rome

was oppressed by the iron sceptre of the exarchs, and a

Greek, perhaps an eunuch, insulted with impunity the

ruins of the Capitol. But Naples soon acquired the pri­

vilege of electing her own dukes;" the independence of

Amalphi was the fruit of commerce: and the voluntary

attachment of Venice was finally ennobled by an equal

alliance with the eastern empire. On the map of Italy,

the measure of the exarchate occupies a very inadequate

space, but it included an ample proportion of wealth, in­

dustry, and population. The most faithful and valuable

subjects escaped from the barbarian yoke; and the ban­

ners of Pavia and Verona, of Milan and Padua, were dis­

played in their respective quarters by the new inhabitants

Tiiektng- of Ravenna. The remainder of Italy was possessed by

Lomhards, the Lombards; and from Pavia, the royal seat, their

kingdom was extended to the east, the north, and the

. west, as far as the confines of the Avars, the Bavarians,

and the Franks of Austrasia and Burgundy. In the lan­

guage of modern geography, it is now represented by the

Terra Firma of the Venetian republic, Tyrol, the Milan­

ese, Piedmont, the coast of Genoa, Mantua, Parma, and

m See Brencmann, Dissert. 1 made Republics Amalphitana,p. 1—42. ad calceiii

Hist. Pandect. Florent.

» Gregor. Magn. lib. 3. epist. 23. 25—2?.

