62 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

actions had deserved a thousand deaths, was at last con­

demned for a crime of which he was innocent. A

great minister, who had been invested with the honours

of consul and patrician, was ignominiously scourged like

the vilest of malefactors; a tattered cloak was the sole

remnant of his fortunes; he was transported in a bark

to the place of his banishment at Antinopolis in Upper

Egypt, and the prefect of the east begged his bread

through the cities which had trembled at his name.

* During an exile of seven years, his life was protracted  
and threatened by the ingenious cruelty of Theodora;

and when her death permitted the emperor to recal a

servant, whom he had abandoned with regret, the am­

bition of John of Cappadocia was reduced to the humble

duties of the sacerdotal profession. His successors con­

vinced the subjects of Justinian, that the arts of op­

pression might still be improved by experience and in­

dustry; the frauds of a Syrian banker were introduced

into the administration of the finances; and the example

of the prefect was diligently copied by the quasstor, the

public and private treasurer, the governors of provinces,

and the principal magistrates of the eastern empire.b

ni»edi6oes V. The edifices of Justinian were cemented with the

tects!" " blood and treasure of his people; but those stately struc­

tures appeared to announce the prosperity of the em­

pire, and actually displayed the skill of their architects.

Both the theory and practice of the arts, which depend

on mathematical science and mechanical power, were

cultivated under the patronage of the emperors; the

fame of Archimedes was rivalled by Proclus and Anthe-

mius; and if their miracles had been related by intelli­

gent spectators, they might now enlarge the speculations,

instead of exciting the distrust, of philosophers. A tra­

dition has prevailed, that the Roman fleet was reduced

b The chronology of Procopius is loose and obscure; but, with the aid of Pagi,
I

can discern that John was appointed praetorian prefect of the east in the year
530;

that he was removed in January 532—restored before Jane 533—hanished in 541 —

and recalled between June 548 and April 1, 549. Aleman (p. 96, 97.) gives the
list

of his ten successors—a japid series in a single reign.

