CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 117

verty exempted them from tribute, and whose cowardice

was seldom exposed to military service. But the wiser

citizens, who judged of the future by the past, revolved

in their memory the immense loss, both of men and

money, which the empire had sustained in the expedi­

tion of Basiliscus. The troops, which after five laborious

campaigns had been recalled from the Persian frontier,

dreaded the sea, the climate, and the arms of an un­

known enemy. The ministers of the finances computed,

as far as they might compute, the demands of an African

war; the taxes which must be found and levied to sup­

ply those insatiate demands; and the danger, lest their

own lives, or at least their lucrative employments, should

be made responsible for the deficiency of the. supply.

Inspired by such selfish motives (for we may not suspect

him of any zeal for the public good), John of Cappado-

cia ventured to oppose in full council the inclinations of

his master. He confessed, that a victory of such impor­

tance could not be too dearly purchased; but he repre­

sented in a grave discourse the certain difficulties and

the uncertain event. "You undertake (said the prefect)

to besiege Carthage by land ; the distance is not less than

one hundred and forty days journey; on the sea, a whole

yeard must elapse before you can receive any intelligence

from your fleet. If Africa should be reduced, it can­

not be preserved without the additional conquest of Si­

cily and Italy. Success will impose the obligation of

new labours; a single misfortune will attract the barba­

rians into the heart of your exhausted empire." Justi­

nian felt the weight of this salutary advice; he was con­

founded by the unwonted freedom of an obsequious ser­

vant ; and the design of the war would perhaps have been

relinquished, if his courage had not been revived by

a voice which silenced the doubts of profane reason.

d A year—absurd exaggeration! The conqnest of Africa may be dated A. D. 533,

September 14: it is celebrated by Justinian in the preface to his Institutes,
which

were published November 21 of the same year. Including the voyage and return,

such a computation might be truly applied to our Indian empire.

