CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

a palace near Verona, which had not heen erected for the

barbarians, he feasted the companions of his arms; in­

toxication was the reward of valour„and the king himself

was tempted by appetite, or vanity, to exceed the ordi­

nary measure of his intemperance. After draining many

capacious bowls of Rhaetian or Falernian wine, he called

for the skull of Cunimund, the noblest and most pre­

cious ornament of his sideboard. The cup of victory was

accepted with horrid applause by the circle of the Lom­

bard chiefs. "Fill it again with wine (exclaimed the

inhuman conqueror), fill it to the brim; carry this goblet

to the queen, and request in my name that she would

rejoice with her father." In an agony of grief and rage,

Rosamond had strength to utter, "Let the will of my

lord be obeyed!" and, touching it with her lips, pro­

nounced a silent imprecation, that the insult should be

washed away in the blood of Alboin. Some indulgence

might be due to the resentment of a daughter, if she had

not already violated the duties of a wife. Implacable in

her enmity, or inconstant in her love, the queen of Italy

had stooped from the throne to the arms of a subject,

and Helmichis, the king's armour-bearer, was the secret

minister of her pleasure and revenge. Against the pro­

posal of the murder he could no longer urge the scruples

of fidelity or gratitude; but Helmichis trembled, when

he revolved the danger, as well as the guilt, when he re­

collected the matchless strength and intrepidity of a war­

rior, whom he had so often attended in the field of bat­

tle. He pressed and obtained, that one of the bravest

champions of the Lombards should be associated to the

enterprise; but no more than a promise of secrecy could

be drawn from the gallant Peredeus; and the mode of

seduction employed by Rosamond betrays her shameless

insensibility both to honour and love. She supplied the

place of one of her female attendants, who was beloved

by Peredeus, and contrived some excuse for darkness and

silence, till she could inform her companion that he had

