CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 320.

snap his fingers, to cast away his garments, and to leap

and dance with real or affected transport.11 If a citizen

pursued any stolen goods into a neighbour's house, he

concealed his nakedness with a linen towel, and hid his

face with a mask or basin, lest he should encounter the

eyes of a virgin or a matron." In a civil action, the

plaintiff touched the ear of his witness, seized his re­

luctant adversary by the neck, and implored, in solemn

lamentation, the aid of his fellow-citizens. The two

competitors grasped each other's hand as if they stood

prepared for combat before the tribunal of the pras-

tor: he commanded them to produce the object of the

dispute; they went, they returned, with measured steps,

and a clod of earth was cast at his feet to represent the

field for which they contended. This occult science of

the words and actions of law was the inheritance of the

pontiffs and the patricians. Like the Chaldean astrolo­

gers, they announced to their clients the days of busi­

ness and repose; these important trifles were interwoven

with the religion of Numa; and, after the publication of

the twelve tables, the Roman people was still enslaved by

the ignorance of judicial proceedings. The treachery of

some plebeian officers at length revealed the profitable

mystery: in a more enlightened age, the legal actions

were derided and observed; and the same antiquity

which sanctified the practice, obliterated the use and

meaning, of this primitive language.'

A more liberal art was cultivated, however, by the Succession

sages of Rome, who, in a stricter sense, may be COnSl- lawyers,

dered as the authors of the civil law. The alteration of

* Cicero (de Ofliciis, S. 19.) may state an Ideal case, hat St. Ambrose (de Officiis,  
S. 2.) appeals to the practice of his own times, which he understood as a
lawyer and a

magistrate. (Sclmlting ad Ulpian. Fragment, tit. 22. no. 28. p. 643, 644.)

« The furtum lance licinqne conceptum was no longer understood in the time of

the Antonines. (Aulus Gellius, 16. 10.) The Attio derivation of Heineocius
(Auti-

quitat. Hom. lib. 4. tit. 1. no. 13—21.) is supported by the evidenoe of
Aristophanes,

his scholiast, and Pollux.

r In his oration for Murena, (c. 9—13.) Cicero tarns into ridicule the forms
and

mysteries of the civilians, which are represented with more candour by Aulus
Collins,

(Noot. Attic. 20. 10.) Gravina, (Opp. p. 265—267.) and Heineccius.
(Antiquitat.

lib. 4. tit. 6.)

VOL. V. Z

