3Q& decline and fall [chap. xlv.

own person the name and liberality of a Roman consul.

The immediate discharge of his uncle's debts exhibited

a solid pledge of his faith and generosity; a train of por­

ters laden with bags of gold advanced into the midst of

the hippodrome, and the hopeless creditors of Justinian

accepted this equitable payment as a voluntary gift. Be­

fore the end of three years his example was imitated and

surpassed by the empress Sophia, who delivered many

indigent citizens from the weight of debt and usury:

an act of benevolence the best entitled to gratitude, since

it relieves the most intolerable distress; but in which

the bounty of a prince is the most liable to be abused by

the claims of prodigality and fraud.'1

Emhassy On the seventh day of his reign, Justin gave audience

Avars, to the ambassadors of the Avars, and the scene was de-

a. d. see. corate(j to impress the barbarians with astonishment, ve­

neration, and terror. From the palace-gate, the spacious

courts and long porticos were lined with the lofty crests

and gilt bucklers of the guards, who presented their

spears and axes with more confidence than they would

have shewn in a field of battle. The officers, who exer­

cised the power, or attended the person, of the prince,

were attired in their richest habits, and arranged accord­

ing to the military and civil order of the hierarchy.

When the veil of the sanctuary was withdrawn, the am­

bassadors beheld the emperor of the east on his throne,

beneath a canopy or dome, which was supported by four

i' columns, and crowned with a winged figure of victory.

In the first emotions of surprise, they submitted to the

servile adoration of the Byzantine court; but as soon as

they rose from the ground, Targetius, the chief of the

embassy, expressed the freedom and pride of a barbarian.

He extolled, by the tongue of his interpreter, the great­

ness of the chagan, by whose clemency the kingdoms of

the south were permitted to exist, whose victorious sub-

d Theophan. Chronograph, p. 205. Whenever Cedrenus or Zonaras are mere

transcribers, it is supurHuous to allege their ttstimony. :• ■>

