176 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIir,

ful fidelity of mankind. A letter was intercepted, which

assured the king of the Goths, that the Asinarian,gate,

adjoining to the Lateran church, should be secretly

Exile of opened to his troops. On the proof of suspicion of trea-

»erins^' son, several senators were banished, and the pope Sylve-

Mol! "us vvas summoned to attend the representative of his

sovereign, at his head-quarters in the Pincian palace."

The ecclesiastics who followed their bishop, were de­

tained in the first or second apartment," and he alone

was admitted to the presence of Belisarius. The con­

queror of Rome and Carthage was modestly seated at

the feet of Antonina, who reclined on a stately couch:

the general was silent, but the voice of reproach and me­

nace issued from the mouth of his imperious wife. Ac-:

cused by credible witnesses, and the evidence of his own

subscription, the successor of St. Peter was despoiled of

his pontifical ornaments, clad in the mean habit of a

monk, and embarked, without delay, for a distant exile

in the east. At the emperor's command, the clergy of

Rome proceeded to the choice of a new bishop ; and after

a solemn invocation of the Holy Ghost, elected the dea­

con Vigilius, who had purchased the papal throne by a

bribe of two hundred pounds of gold. The profit, and

consequently the guilt, of this simony, was imputed to

Belisarius: but the hero obeyed the orders of his wife:

Antonina served the passions of the empress ; and The­

odora lavished her treasures, in the vain hope of obtaining

a pontiff hostile or indifferent to the council of Chal­

cedony

» The name of the palace, the hill, anil the adjoining gate, were all derived
from

the senator Pincias. Some recent vestiges of temples and churches are now
smooth­

ed in the garden of the Jlinims of the Trinita del Monte. (Nardini, lib. 4. c.
7. p.,

196. Eschinard.p. 209, 210. theold plan of Buflalino, and the great plan
ofNolli.)

Belisarius bad fixed his station between the Pineian and Salarian gntes.
(Procop.

Goth. lib. 1.e. 15.)

x From the mention of the primum et secundum velum, it should seem that Beli­

sarius, even in a siege, represented the emperor, and maintained the proud
ceremonial

of the Byzantine palace.

y Of this act of sacrilege, Procoplus (Goth. lib. 1. c. 25.) is a dry and
reluctant

-wituess. The narratives of Liberatus, (Breviarium, c. 22.) and Anastasius, (de  
Vit. Pont. p. 39.) are characteristic, but passionate. Hear the execrations of
cardi­

nal Baronius: (A. D. 536. no. 123. A. D. 538. no. 1—20.) portcntmn, facinns
oimii

•xccratiune dignum.

