CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 73

the insects, and the manufactures of silk,1 in which both

China and Constantinople have been surpassed by the

industry of modern Europe. I am not insensible of the

benefits of elegant luxury; yet I reflect with some pain,

that if the importers of silk had introduced the art of

printing, already practised by the Chinese, the comedies

of Menander, and the entire decads of Livy, would have

been perpetuated in the editions of the sixth century.

A larger view of the globe might at least have promoted

the improvement of speculative science; but the Christian

geography was forcibly extracted from texts of Scripture,

and the study of nature was the surest symptom of an un­

believing mind. The orthodox faith confined the habi­

table world to one temperate zone, and represented the

earth as an oblong surface, four hundred days' journey

in length, two hundred in breadth, encompassed by the

ocean, and covered by the solid chrystal of the firma­

ment.11

IV. The subjects of Justinian were dissatisfied with the state of the

times, and with the government. Europe was overrunre?eime'

by the barbarians, and Asia by the monks; the poverty

of the west discouraged the trade and manufactures of

the east; the produce of labour was consumed by the

unprofitable servants of the church, the state, and the

army, and a rapid decrease was felt in the fixed and cir­

culating capitals which constitute the national wealth.

The public distress had been alleviated by the economy

t Procopius, lib. 8. Gothic. 4. c. 17. Theophanes, Byzant. apnd Phot. Cod.

84. p. 38. Zonaras, tom. S. lib. 14. p. 69. Pagi (tom. 2. p. 603.) assigns to
the

year 552 this memorable importation. Menander (in Excerpt. Legat, p. 107.)
men­

tions the admiration of the Sogdoites; and Theopbylact Simocatta (lib. 7. c.
9.)

darkly represents the two rival kingdoms in (China) the country of silk.

b Cosmas, sarnanied Indicopleastes, or the Indian navigator, performed his
voyage

about the year 522, and composed, at Alexandria, between 535 and 547,
Christian To­

pograpby, (Montfauoon, Praefat. c. 1.) in which he refutes the impious
opinion, that the

earth is a globe; and Photios had read this work, (Cod. 36. p. 9,10.) which
displays

the prejudices of a monk, with the knowledge of a merchant: the most valuable
part

has been given in French, and in Greek by Melchisedeo Thevenot, (Relations
Curi-

euses, part 1.) and the whole is since published in a splendid edition by the
Pere

Montfaucon. (Nova Collectio Patrum, Paris, 1707, 2 vols, in fol. tom. 2. p.
113

346.) But the editor, a theologian, might blush at not discovering the
Nestorian

heresy of Cosmas, which has been detected by la Croze. (Christianisme des
Indes,

tom. i. p. 40—56.)

VOL. V. , G

