CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

confidence was ungratefully betrayed: instead of solicit­

ing and expecting the aid of the king of Italy, they

yielded to the first summons a cheerful obedience: and

this province, the first fruits of the Punic wars, was again,1

after a long separation, united to the Roman empire.1

The Gothic garrison of Palermo, which alone attempted

to resist, was reduced, after a short siege, by a singular-

stratagem. Belisarius introduced his ships into the

deepest recess of the harbour; their boats were labo­

riously hoisted with ropes and pulleys to the topmast

head, and he filled them with archers, who, from that

superior station, commanded the ramparts of the city.

After this easy, though successful campaign, the con­

queror entered Syracuse in triumph, at the head of his

victorious bands, distributing gold medals to the people,

on the day which so gloriously terminated the year of

the consulship. He passed the winter season in the pa­

lace of ancient kings, amidst the ruins of a Grecian co­

lony, which once extended to a circumference of two-

and-twenty miles :m but in the spring, about the festival

of Easter, the prosecution of his designs was interrupted

by a dangerous revolt of the African forces. Carthage

was saved by the presence of Belisarius, who suddenly

landed with a thousand guards. Two thousand soldiers

of doubtful faith returned to the standard of their old

commander: and he marched, without hesitation, above

fifty miles, to seek an enemy whom he affected to pity

and despise. Eight thousand rebels trembled at his ap­

proach; they were routed at the first onset, by the dexr

terity of their master: and this ignoble victory would

have restored the peace of Africa, if the conqueror had

not been hastily recalled to Sicily, to appease a sedition

'For the conquest of Sicily, compare tho narrative of Procopins with the com­

plaints of Totila. (Gothic lib. 1. o. '5. lib.'S. o. 16.) The Gothic queen had
lately

relieved that thankless island. (Var. 9.10.11.)

m The ancient magnitude and. splendour of the five quarters of Syracuse, are
deli­

neated by Cicero (in Vcrrem, actio2. lib. 4. c. 52, 53)Strabo, (lib, 6. p.
415.,) anil

d'Orville Sicula. (tom. 2..p. 174—202.) The new city, restored by Augustus,
shrunk

towards the island.

