CHAP. XLlV.j OF THE SOMAN EMPIRE. $73

But as the new practice of trusts degenerated into some-

abuse, the trustee was enabled, by the Trebellian and

Pegasian decrees, to reserve one-fourth of the estate, or

to transfer on the head of the real heir all the debts and

actions of the succession. The interpretation of testa­

ments was strict and literal; but the language of trusts

and codicils was delivered from the minute and technical

accuracy of the civilians.'

III. The general duties of mankind are imposed by in. or

their public and private relations: but their specific obli­

gations to each other can only be the effect of, 1. a pro­

mise, 2. a benefit, or, 3. an injury: and when these

obligations are ratified by law, the interested party may

compel the performance by a judicial action. On this

principle the civilians of every country have erected a si­

milar jurisprudence, the fair conclusion of universal rea­

son and justice."

I. The goddess of faith (of human and social faith)

was worshipped, not only in her temples, but in the lives

of the Romans; and if that nation was deficient in the

more amiable qualities of benevolence and generosity,

they astonished the Greeks by their sincere and simple

performance of the most burdensome engagements.1

Yet among the same people, according to the rigid max­

ims of the patricians and decemvirs, a naked pact, a pro­

mise, or even an oath, did not create any civil obligation,

unless it was confirmed by the legal form of a stipulation.

Whatever might be the etymology of the Latin word,

it conveyed the idea of a firm and irrevocable contract,

which was always expressed in the mode of a question

'Of tlie civil jurisprudence of successions, testaments, codicils, legacies,
and

trusts, the principles are ascertained in the Institutes of Caius, (lib. 2.
tit 2—9.

p. 91—144.) Justinian, (lib. 2. tit. 10—25.)and Theophilus, (p. 328—514.) and
I ho

immense detail occupies twelve books (28—39.) of the Pandects.

- " The Institutes of Cains, (lib. 2. tit. 9,10. p. 144—214.) of Justinian, (Kb. 3. tit.  
14—30. lib. 4. tit. 1—C.) and of Theophilus, (p. 616—837.) distinguish four

sorts of obligations—aut re, aut verbis, aut Uteris, aut consensu; but 1
confess my­

self partial to my own division.

* How mnch is the cool, rational evidence of Polybius (lib. 6. p. 693. lib. 31.  
p. 1459,1460.) superior to vague, indiscriminate applause—omnium niaxime et
pras-

cipue fidem coluit. (A. Gellius, tQ. 1.)

