458 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

subjects were divided and transplanted by the jealous po­

licy of the conqueror.' The eastern regions of Germa­

ny, which had been left vacant by the emigration of the

Vandals, were replenished with the Sclavonian colonists;

the same tribes are discovered in the neighbourhood of

the Hadnatic and of the Baltic, and with the name of

Baian himself, the Illyrian cities of Neyss and Lissa are

again found in the heart of Silesia. In the disposition

both of his troops and provinces, the chagan exposed the

vassals, whose lives he disregarded,1" to the first assault;

and the swords of the enemy were blunted before they

encountered the native valour of the Avars.

Wmr«.of The Persian alliance restored the troops of the east to

Maurice > « J

•gainst the the defence of Europe ; and Maurice, who had supported

a*d"'s95 ten years the insolence of the chagan, declared his reso-

~60i- lution to march in person against the barbarians. In the

space of two centuries, none of the successors of Theo-

dosius had appeared in the field, their lives were supinely

spent in the palace of Constantinople; and the Greeks

could no longer understand, that the name of emperor,

in its primitive sense, denoted the chief of the armies of

the republic. The martial ardour of Maurice was op­

posed by the grave flattery of the senate, the timid su­

perstition of the patriarch, and the tears of the empress

Constantina; and they all conjured him to devolve on

some meaner general the fatigues and perils of a Scy­

thian campaign. Deaf to their advice and entreaty, the

emperor boldly advanced1 seven miles from the capital;

with tome itinerant harpers from that remote country, and only seems to hare
mis­

taken a trade for a nation. Tbeophylact, lib. 6. o. 2.

> This, is one of the most probable and luminous conjectures of the learned
count

de Bunt. (Hist, des I'euples Barbaras, torn. 11. p. 546—568.) The Txechi and
Serbi

are found together near mount Caucasus, in Illyricum, and on the Lower Elbe.

Even the wildest traditions of the Bohemians, 5ic. afford some colour to his
hy­

pothesis.

* See Fredegarius, in the Historians of France, torn. 2. p. 432. Baian did not  
conceal his proud insensibility. On Touvraif (not T*7wrou?, according to a
foolish

emendation) Wayne* Tp Fn/taXn, in it km mpfUm yi fftiri davaTa i\mtu, aXX jusi

> See the march and return of Maurice, in Theophylaot, lib. 5. c. 16. lib. 6.
c. 1—

3. If he were a writer of taste or genius, we might suspect him of an elegant
irony:

but Tbeophylact is surely harmless.

