DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

the baptism and auspicious name of the first soldier who

embarked; and the proselyte was adopted into the family

of his spiritual parents/ Belisarius and Antonina. Be­

fore they touched the shores of Africa, this holy kindred

degenerated into sensual love; and as Antonina soon

overleaped the bounds of modesty and caution, the Ro­

man general was alone ignorant of his own dishonour.

During their residence at Carthage, he surprised the two

lovers in a subterraneous chamber, solitary, warm, and

almost naked. Anger flashed from his eyes. "With

the help of this young man (said the unblushing Anto­

nina), I was secreting our most precious effects from the

knowledge of Justinian." The youth resumed his gar­

ments, and the pious husband consented to disbelieve the

evidence of his own senses. From this pleasing and

perhaps voluntary delusion, Belisarius was awakened at

Syracuse, by the officious information of Macedonia:

and that female atteridant, after requiring an oath for her

security, produced two chamberlains, who, like herself,

had often beheld the adulteries of Antonina. A hasty

flight into Asia saved Theodosius from the justice of an

injured husband, who had signified to one of his guards

the order of his death; but the tears of Antonina, and

her artful seduction, assured the credulous hero of her

innocence; and he stooped, against his faith and judg­

ment, to abandon those imprudent friends who had pre­

sumed to accuse or doubt the chastity of his wife. The

revenge of a guilty woman is implacable and bloody:

the unfortunate Macedonia, with the two witnesses, were

secretly arrested by the minister of her cruelty: their

tongues were cut out, their bodies were hacked into

small pieces, and their remains were cast into the sea of

Syracuse. A rash, though judicious saying of Constan-

tine, "I would sooner have punished the adultress than

the boy," was deeply remembered by Antonina: and

> Compare the Vandalio War (lib. i, c. 12.) with the Anecdotes, (c. 1.) and
Ale-

mauuus. (p. 2, 3.) This mode of haptismal adoption was revived by Leo the phi­

losopher.

