DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

Photius11 was exposed to her secret persecutions in the

camp beyond the Tigris. Enraged by his own wrongs,

and by the dishonour of his blood, he cast away in his

turn the sentiments of nature, and revealed to Belisarius

the turpitude of a woman who had violated all the duties

of a mother and a wife. From the surprise and indig­

nation of the Roman general, his former credulity ap­

pears to have been sincere: he embraced the knees of

the son of Antonina, adjured him to remember his ob­

ligations rather than his birth, and confirmed at the

altar their holy vows of revenge and mutual defence.

The dominion of Antonina was impaired by absence;

and when she met her husband, on his return from the

Persian confines, Belisarius, in his first and transient

emotions, confined her person, and threatened her life.

Photius was more resolved to punish, and less prompt to

pardon: he flew to Ephesus; extorted from a trusty

eunuch of his mother the full confession of her guilt;

arrested Theodosius and his treasures in the church of

St. John the apostle, and concealed his captives, whose

execution was only delayed, in a secure and sequestered

fortress of Cilicia. Such a daring outrage against public

justice could not pass with impunity; and the cause of

Antonina was espoused by the empress, whose favour

she had deserved by the recent services of the disgrace

of a prefect, and the exile and murder of a pope. At the

end of the campaign, Belisarius was recalled; he com­

plied, as usual, with the imperial mandate. His mind

was not prepared for rebellion; his obedience, however

adverse to the dictates of honour, was consonant to the

wishes of his heart; and when he embraced his wife, at

the command, and perhaps in the presence, of the em­

press, the tender husband was disposed to forgive or to

be forgiven. The bounty of Theodora reserved for her

companion a more precious favour. "I have found,

(she said) my dearest patrician, a pearl of inestimable

a Theophanes (Chronograph, p. 204.) styles him Photinus, the son-in-law of Be-

lisaf us; and lie is copied by the Hisloria Minella and Anaslasius.

