CHAP. XLI.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 105

two years afterward, when despair had armed that officer

against his general, her sanguinary advice decided and

hastened his execution. Even the indignation of Pho-

tius was not forgiven by his mother; the exile of her son

prepared the recal of her lover; and Theodosius conde­

scended to accept the pressing and humble invitation of

the conqueror of Italy. In the absolute direction of his

household, and in the important commissions of peace

and war,z the favourite youth most rapidly acquired a for­

tune of four hundred thousand pounds sterling; and,

after their return to Constantinople, the passion of An-

tonina, at least, continued ardent and unabated. But

fear, devotion, and lassitude, perhaps, inspired Theodo­

sius with more serious thoughts. He dreaded the busy

scandal of the capital, and the indiscreet fondness of the

wife of Belisarius; escaped from her embraces, and, re­

tiring to Ephesus, shaved his head, and took refuge in

the sanctuary of a monastic life. The despair of the new

Ariadne could scarcely have been excused by the death

of her husband. She wept, she tore her hair, she filled

the palace with her cries; "she had lost the dearest of

friends, a tender, a faithful, a laborious friend!" But her

warm entreaties, fortified by the prayers of Belisarius,

were insufficient to draw the holy monk from the soli­

tude of Ephesus. It was not till the general moved for­

ward for the Persian war, that Theodosius could be

tempted to return to Constantinople; and the short in­

terval before the departure of Antonina herself was boldly

devoted to love and pleasure.

A philosopher may pity and forgive the infirmities of Resentment

female nature, from which he receives no real injury ; "ius «nd'

but contemptible is the husband who feels, and yet en- p"°J°"s.

dures, his own infamy in that of his wife. Antonina

pursued her son with implacable hatred; and the gallant

z In November 537, Photius arrested the pope. (Liberat. Brev. c. 22. Pagi.
tom.

2. p. 562.) About the end of 539, Belisarius sent Theodosius—tov n owia, t>i
*utov

i4>wr«rtt—on an important aud lucrative commission to Ravenna. (Goth. lib. 2.

e. 18.)

