PREFACE. V

truth and knowledge, I am not conscious of decay. To an

active mind, indolence is more painful than labour j and the

first months of my liberty will be occupied and amused in

the excursions of curiosity and taste. By such temptations,

I have been sometimes seduced from the rigid duty even of

a pleasing and voluntary task: but my time will now be my

own; and in the use or abuse of independence, I shall no

longer fear my own reproaches or those of my friends. I am

fairly entitled to a year of jubilee: next summer and the fol­

lowing winter will rapidly pass away; and experience only

can determine whether I shall stiH prefer the freedom and

variety of study to the design and composition of a regular

work, which animates, while it confines, the daily applica­

tion of the author. Caprice and accident may influence my

choice; but the dexterity of self-love will contrive to applaud

either active industry, or philosophic repose.

Downing-Sthbit,

May 1, 1788.

P. S. I shall embrace this opportunity of introducing two

verbal remarks, which have not conveniently offered them­

selves to my notice. 1. As often as I use the definitions of

beydnd the Alps, the Rhine, the Danube, 8cc. I generally sup­

pose myself at Rome, and afterward at Constantinople;

without observing whether this relative geography may agree

with the local, but variable, situation of the reader, or the

historian. 2. In proper names of foreign, and especially of

oriental origin, it should be always our aim to express in our

English version, a faithful copy of the original. But this

rule, which is founded on a just regard to uniformity and

truth, must often be relaxed: and the exceptions will be li-

y mited or enlarged by the custom of the language and the

taste of the interpreter. Our alphabets may be often defec­

tive: a harsh sound, an uncouth spelling, might offend the

ear or the eye of our countrymen; and some words, notori­

ously corrupt, are fixed, and, as it were, naturalized in the

vulgar tongue. The prophet Mohammed can no longer be

stripped of the famous, though improper, appellation of Ma­

homet: the well-known cities of Aleppo, Damascus, and

Cairo, would almost be lost in the strange descriptions of

Haleb, Damashk, and Al Cahii a: the titles and offices of the

