3Q2 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLHI,

The conspirators were detected and seized, with daggers

hidden under their garments: Marcellus died by his own

hand, and Sergius was dragged from the sanctuary."

Pressed by remorse, or tempted by the hopes of safety, he

accused two officers of the household of Belisarius; and

torture forced them to declare that they had acted accord­

ing to the secret instructions of their patron.* Posterity

will not hastily believe that a hero, who, in the vigour

of life, had disdained the fairest offers of ambition and

revenge, should stoop to the murder of his prince, whom

he could not long expect to survive. His followers were

impatient to fly; but flight must have been supported

by rebellion, and he had lived enough for nature and for

glory. Belisarius appeared before the council with less

a. n. 563, fear than indignation: after forty years' service, the em-

Dec'5' peror had prejudged his guilt; and injustice was sancti­

fied by the presence and authority of the patriarch. - The

life of Belisarius was graciously spared; but his fortunes

were sequestered, and from December to July he was

guarded as a prisoner in his own palace. At length his

a. d. 564, innocence was acknowledged; his freedom and honours

,tl!y 19, Were restored; and death, which might be hastened

by resentment and grief, removed him from the world

a. d. 565. about eight months after his deliverance. The name of

laro 13. geusarius can never ;DUt instead of the funeral,

the monuments, the statues, so justly due to his memory,

I only read, that his treasures, the spoils of the Goths

and Vandals, were immediately confiscated by the em­

peror. Some decent portion was reserved, however, for

the use of his widow; and as Antonina had much to

repent, she devoted the last remains of her life and for­

tune to the foundation of a convent. Such is the sim­

ple and genuine narrative of the tall of Belisarius and

the ingratitude of Justinian.7 That he was deprived

u The Sergius (Vandal, lib. 2. c. 21, 22. Anecdot. c. 5.) and Marcellus (Goth.
lib.

3. c. 32.) are mentioned by Procopins. See Theophanes, p. 197. 201.

* Alemannus (p. 3.) quotes an old Byzantine MS. which has been printad in the  
Iniperium Orientate of Banduri.

J Of the disgrace and restoration of Belisarius, the genuine original record
is pr»­

