CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

later times, was devoted to the study of the law; astro­

nomy and physic were cultivated in the museum of

Alexandria; but the Attic schools of rhetoric and philo­

sophy maintained their superior reputation from the Pe-

loponnesian war to the reign of Justinian. Athens,

though situate in a barren soil, possessed a pure air, a free

navigation, and the monuments of ancient art. That

sacred retirement was seldom disturbed by the business

of trade or government; and the last of the Athenians

were distinguished by their lively wit, the purity of their

taste and language, their social manners, and some traces,

at least in discourse, of the magnanimity of their fathers.

In the suburbs of the city, the academy of the Platonists,

the lyceum of the Peripatetics, the portico of the Stoics,

and the garden of the Epicureans, were planted with

trees and decorated with statues: and the philosophers,

instead of being immured in a cloister, delivered their in­

structions in spacious and pleasant walks, which, at dif­

ferent hours, were consecrated to the exercises of the

mind and body. The genius of the founders still lived

in those venerable seats; the ambition of succeeding to

the masters of human reason, excited a generous emula­

tion; and the merit of the candidates was determined, on

each vacancy, by the free voices of an enlightened people.

The Athenian professors were paid by their disciples:

according to their mutual wants and abilities, the price

appears to have varied from a mina to a talent; and Iso-

crates himself, who derides the avarice of the sophists,

required, in his school of rhetoric, about thirty pounds

from each of his hundred pupils. The wages of industry

are just and honourable, yet the same Isocrates shed

tears at the first receipt of a stipend; the Stoic might

blush when he was hired to preach the contempt of mo­

ney; and I should be sorry to discover, that Aristotle or

Plato so far degenerated from the example of Socrates,

as to exchange knowledge for gold. But some property

of lands and houses was settled by the permission of the

i 2

