278 DECLINE AND FALL [GHAP. XLIII.

his wife; but the servitude of habit and affection be­

came less disgraceful when the death of Theodora had

removed the baser influence of fear. Joannina their

daughter, and the sole heiress of their fortunes, was be­

trothed to Anastasius, the grandson, or rather nephew,

of the empress/ whose kind interposition forwarded the

consummation of their youthful loves. But the power

of Theodora expired, the parents of Joannina returned,

and her honour, perhaps her happiness, were sacrificed

to the revenge of an unfeeling mother, who dissolved the

imperfect nuptials before they had been ratified by the

ceremonies of the church.y

Rome Before the departure of Belisarius, Perusia was be-

again . . _ _ .

taken by sieged, and few cities were impregnable to the Gothic

A.eD.°549. arms. Ravenna, Ancona, and Crotona still resisted the

Barbarians; and when Totila asked in marriage one of

the daughters of France, he was stung by the just re­

proach that the king of Italy was unworthy of his title

till it was acknowledged by the Roman people. Three

thousand of the bravest soldiers had been left to defend

the capital. On the suspicion of a monopoly, they mas­

sacred the governor, and announced to Justinian, by a

deputation of the clergy, that unless their offence was

pardoned, and their arrears were satisfied, they should in­

stantly accept the tempting offers of Totila. But the

officer, who succeeded to the command (his name was

Diogenes), deserved their esteem and confidence; and

the Goths, instead of finding an easy conquest, encoun­

tered a vigorous resistance from the soldiers and people,

x Alemannns, (ad Hist. Arcanam, p. 68.) Ducange, (Familiaj Byzant. p. 98.) and

Heineccius, (Hist. Juris Civilis, p. 434.) all three represent Anastasius as
the son of

the daughter of Theodora; and their opinion firmly reposes on the unambiguous
tes­

timony of Procopius. (Anecdot. c. 4, 5—8uy«T{iS«i twice repeated.) And yet I
will

remark, 1. That in the year 547, Theodora could scarcely have a grandson of
the age

of puberty: 2. That we are totally ignorant of this daughter and her husband;
and,

3. That Theodora concealed her bastards, and that her grandson by Justinian
would

have been heir-apparent of the empire.

y The ajuttgrtjjUATa, or sins, of the hero of Italy and after his return, are
manifested

amaga.xai.vttTx;, and most probably swelled, by the author of the Anecdotes,
(o. 4,

5.) The designs of Antonina were favoured by the fluctuating jurisprudence of

Jnstinian. On the law of marriage and divorce, that emperor was trocho versa-

lilior. (Heineccius. Element. Juris. Civil, ad Ordinem Pandect, p. 4. no.
233.)

