24 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIV.

crine port, were assigned for the ordinary repairs of the

walls and public edifices. A similar care was extended

to the statues of metal or marble, of men or animals.

The spirit of the horses, which have given a modern

name to the Quirinal, was applauded by the barba­

rians;" the brazen elephants of the Via sacra were dili­

gently restoredthe famous heifer of Myron deceived

the cattle, as they were driven through the forum of

peace/ and an officer was created to protect these works

of art, which Theodoric considered as the noblest orna-

, ment of his kingdom.

!?a°terofh:ng After the example of the last emperors, Theodoric

Italy. preferred the residence of Ravenna, where he cultivated

an orchard with his own hands.2 As often as the peace

of his kingdom was threatened (for it was never invaded)

by the barbarians, he removed his court to Verona" on

the northern frontier, and the image of his palace, still

extant, on a coin, represents the oldest and most authen­

tic model of Gothic architecture. These two capitals, as

well as Pavia, Spoleto, Naples, and the rest of the Italian

cities, acquired under his reign the useful or splendid

decorations of churches, aqueducts, baths, porticos, and

,palaces.b But the happiness of the subject was more

truly conspicuous in the busy scene of labour and luxury,

in the rapid increase and bold enjoyment of national

wealth: from the shades of Tibur and Praeneste, the

u Var. 7. 15. These horses of Monte-Cavallo had been transported from
Alexandria

to the haths of Constantine. (Nardini, p. 188.) Their sculpture is disdained
by the

abbe Dnbos, (Reflections sur la Poesie et sur la Peiuture, tom. 1. section
39.) and ad­

mired by Winkleman. (Hist. de l'Art, tom. 2. p. 159.)

x Var. 10. 10. They were prohably a fragment of some triumphal car. (Cuper

de Elephantis, 2. 10.)

J Procopius (Goth. lib. 4. c. 21.) relates a foolish story of Myron's cow,
which is

celebrated by the false wit of thirty-six Greek epigrams. (Anthalog. lib. 4.
p. 302—

306. edit. Hen. Steph. Auson. Epigram. 58—68.)

1 See an Epigram of Ennodius (2. 3. p. 1893, 1894.) on this garden and the
royal

gardener.

» His affection for' that city is proved by the epithet of " Verona taa," and
the le­

gend of the hero: under the harharous name of Dietrich of Bern, (Peringsciold
ad

Cochloeum, p. 240.) Maffei traces him with knowledge and pleasure in his
native coun­

try, (lib. 9. p. 230—236.)

k See Maffei, Verona lllustrata, part 1. p. 231, 232. 308, &c. He imputes Go­

thic architecture, like the corruption of language, writing, &c. not to the
harharians,

hot to the Italians themselves. Compare his sentiments with those of
Tiraboschi

(tom. 3. p. 61.)

