DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP XLVI.

transported their tents from the plains of the Volga to'

the mountains of Georgia; Heraclius received them iti

the neighbourhood of Teflis, and the khan with his no­

bles dismounted from their horses, if we may credit the

Greeks, and fell prostrate on the ground, to adore the

purple of the Caesar. Such voluntary homage and im­

portant aid were entitled to the warmest acknowledg­

ments; and the emperor, talcing off his own diadem,

placed it on the head of the Turkish prince, whom he

saluted with a tender embrace and the appellation of son.

After a sumptuous banquet, he presented Ziebel with the

plate and ornaments, the gold, the gems, and the silk,

which had been used at the imperial table, and, with

his own hand, distributed rich jewels and ear-rings

to his new allies. In a secret interview, he produced the

portrait of his daughter Eudocia,5 condescended to flat­

ter the barbarian with the promise of a fair and august

bride, obtained an immediate succour of forty thousand

horse, and negotiated a strong diversion of the Turkish

arms on the side of the Oxus.h The Persians, in their

turn, retreated with precipitation ; in thecampofEdessa,

Heraclius reviewed an army of seventy thousand Romans

and strangers; and some months were successfully em­

ployed in the recovery of the cities of Syria, Mesopota­

mia, and Armenia, whose fortifications had been imper­

fectly restored. Sarbar still maintained the important

station of Chalcedon; but the jealousy of Chosroes, or

the artifice of Heraclius, soon alienated the mind of that

powerful satrap from the service of his king and country.

A messenger was intercepted with a real or fictitious man­

date to the cadarigan, or second in command, directing

him to send, without delay, to the throne, the head of a

B Epiphania, or Eudocia, the only daughter of Heraclius and his first wife
Eudocia

■was born at Constantinople on the ?th of July, A. D. 611. haptized the 15th
of Au­

gust, and crovrhed (in the oratory of St. Stephen in the palace) the 4th of
Octobei

of the same year. At this time she was about fifteen. Eudoeia was afterward
sent

to her Turkish hushand, but the news of his death stopped her journey and
prevented

the consummation. (Ducange, Familias Byzantin. p. 118.)

b Elmauin (Hist. Saraceu. p. 1S—16.) gives some curious and prohable facts:
but

his numbers are rather too high—three hundred thousand Romans assembled a*

Edessa—five hundred thousand Persians killed at Nineveh. The ahatement of a

cipher is scarcely enough to restore his sanity.

