DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

cated the new recruits in the knowledge and practice

of military virtue. Unfolding the miraculous image of

Christ he urged them to revenge the holy altars which

had been profaned by the worshippers of fire; address­

ing them by the endearing appellations of sons and bre­

thren, he deplored the public and private wrongs of the

republic. The subjects of a monarch were persuaded

that they fought in the cause of freedom; and a similar

enthusiasm was communicated to the foreign mercena­

ries who must have viewed with equal indifference the

interest of Rome and of Persia. Heraclius himself, with

the skill and patience of a centurion, inculcated the les­

sons of the school of tactics, and the soldiers were assidu­

ously trained in the use of their weapons, and the exer­

cises and evolutions of the field. The cavalry and in­

fantry in light or heavy armour were divided into two

parts; the trumpets were fixed in the centre, and their

signals directed the march, the charge, the retreat, or

pursuit; the direct or oblique order, the deep or extend­

ed phalanx; to represent in fictitious combat the opera­

tions of genuine war. Whatever hardship the emperor

imposed on the troops, he inflicted with equal severity

on himself; their labour, their diet, their sleep, were

measured by the inflexible rules of discipline ; and, with­

out despising the enemy, they were taught to repose an

implicit confidence in their own valour and the wisdom

of their leader. Cilicia was soon encompassed with the

Persian arms; but their cavalry hesitated to enter the

defiles of mount Taurus, till they were circumvented by

the evolutions of Heraclius, who insensibly gained their

rear, whilst he appeared to present his front in order of

battle. By a false motion which seemed to threaten Ar­

menia, he drew them, against their wishes, to a general

action. They were tempted by the artful disorder of his

camp; but when they advanced to combat, the ground,

the sun, and the expectation of both armies, were unpro-

pitious to the barbarians; the Romans successfully re-

