CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

and courteous demeanour, of the Gothic king excited the

admiration of the Romans, and he contemplated with

equal curiosity and surprise, the monuments that remain­

ed of their ancient greatness. He imprinted the footsteps

of a conqueror on the Capitoline-hill, and frankly con­

fessed that each day he viewed with fresh wonder the

forum of Trajan and his lofty column. The theatre of

Pompey appeared, even in its decay, as a huge mountain

artificially hollowed and polished, and adorned by human

industry; and he vaguely computed, that a river of gold

must have been drained to erect the colossal amphithe­

atre of Titus/ From the mouths of fourteen aqueducts,

a pure and copious stream was diffused into every part

of the city; among these the Claudian water, which

arose at the distance of thirty-eight miles in the Sabine

mountains, was conveyed along a gentle though constant

declevity of solid arches, till it descended on the summit

of the Aventine-hill. The long and spacious vaults

which had been constructed for the purpose of common

sewers, subsisted, after twelve centuries, in their pristine

strength ; and the subterraneous channels have been pre­

ferred to all the visible wonders of Rome.5 The Gothic

kings, so injuriously accused of the ruin of antiquity,

were anxious to preserve the monuments of the nation

whom they had subdued.' The royal edicts were framed

to prevent the abuses, the neglect, or the depredations,

of the citizens themselves; and a professed architect, the

annual sum of two hundred pounds of gold, twenty-five

thousand tiles, and the receipt of customs from the Lu-

r Cassiodorius describes, in his pompons style, the foram of Trajan, (Var. 7.
6.)

the theatre ofMarcellus(c. 4.51. )and the amphitheatre of Titus, (5. 42.) and
hisde-

scriptions are not unwortby of the reader's perusal. According to the modern
prices,

the abbe Barthelemy computes that the brick-work and masoury of the Coliseum

would now cost twenty millions of French livies. (Mem. de 1'Academie des
Inscrip­

tions, tom. 28, p. 585, 586.) How small a part of that stupendions fabric!

• For the aqueducts and cloacae, see Strabo, (lib. 5. p. 360.) Pliny, (Hist.
Nat. 36.

24.)Cassiodorius, (Var. 3.30, St. 6. 6.) Procopius, (Goth. lib.1.e. 19.) and
Nardini.

(Roma Antica, p. 514—522.) How such works could be executed by a king of Rome

is yet a problem.

1 For the Gothic care of the buildings and statues, see Cassiodorius. (Var. 1.
21.

So. 2. 34. 4. 30. 7. 6. 13. 15.) and the Valesisn Fragment, (p. 721.)

