376 DECLIKE AND PALL ' [cHAP. XLIV.

improvements could be expected from a farmer, who,

interest of at ea°h moment, might be ejected by the sale of the es-

money. tate." Usury,b the inveterate grievance of the city, had

been discouraged by the twelve tables,' and abolished by

the clamours of the people. It was revived by their wants

and idleness, tolerated by the discretion of the praetors,

, . and finally determined by the code of Justinian. Persons

of illustrious rank were confined to the moderate profit

of four per cent.; six was pronounced to be the ordinary

and legal standard of interest; eight was allowed for the

convenience of manufacturers and merchants; twelve was

granted to nautical insurance, which the wiser ancients

had not attempted to define; but except in this perilous

adventure, the practice of exorbitant usury was severely

restrained.*1 The most simple interest was condemned by

the clergy of the east and west:' but the sense of mutual

benefit, which had triumphed over the laws of the re­

public, have resisted with equal firmness the decrees of

the church, and even the prejudices of mankind/

a The covenants of rent are defined in the Pandects (lib;' 19.) and the Code,
(lib.

4. tit. 65 ) The qainquenniam, or term of five years, appears to have been a
custom,

rather than a law; hat in France all leases of land were determined in nine
years.

This limitation was removed only in the year 1775, (Encyclopedic Methodique,
tom.

1. do la Jurisprudence, p. 668, 669.) and I am sorry to observe that it yet
prevails

in the beauteous and happy country where 1 am permitted to reside.

b I might implicitly acquiesce in the sense and learning of the three books of

G. Noodt, de fcenore et usuris.(Opp. tom. 1. p. 175—268.) The interpretation
of the

asses or centesimae nsurie at twelve, the unciariae at one per cent. is
maintained by

the best critics and civilians; Noodt, (lib. 2. e. X. p. "207.) Gravina, (Opp.
p. 405,

&C. 210.) Heineccius, (Antiquitat. ad Institut. lib. 3. tit. 15.) Montesquieu,
(Esprit

des Loix, lib. 22. c. 22. tom. 1. p. 36. Defense de I'Esprit des Loix, tom. 3.
p. 478,

&c.) and above all John Frederic Grunovius, (de Pecunia Veteri, lib. 3. c. 13.
p.

213—227.) and his three Antexegeses, (p. 455—655.) the founder, or at least
the

champion, of this prohable opinion; which is however perplexed with some
diffi­

culties.

c Primo daodecim tabulis sanoitum est ne quis unciario foenore amplius
exerceret.

(Tacit. Annal. 6.16.) Pour peu(says Montesquieu,Esprit des Loix, lib. 22. c.
22.)

qu'on soit verse dans l'histoire de Rome, on Terra qu'une pareille loi ne
devoit pas

etre 1'ouvragc des decemvirs. Was Tacitus ignorant—or stupid? But the wiser

and more virtuous patricians might sacrifice their avarice to their amhition,
and might

attempt to check the odious practice by such interest as no lender would
accept,aud

such penalties as no debtor would incur.

d Justinian has not condescended to give usury a place in his Institutes; but
the

necessary rules and restrictions are inserted in the Pandects (lib. 22. tit.
1, 2.) and

the Code. (lib. 4. tit. 32, 33.)

e The fathers are unanimous, (Barbeyrao, Morale des Peres, p.-144,
&c.)Cyprian,

Lactantins, Basil, Chrysostom, (see his frivolous arguments in Noodt, lib. 1.
■e. 7.

p. 188.) Gregory of Nyssa, Ambrose, Jerome, Augustin, and a host of councils
and

casuists.

'Cato, Seneca, Plutarch, have loudly condemned the practice or abuse of usury.

