CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 411

tred his brothers and cousins, the rivals of his hopes; nor

could he depend on the gratitude of those who would ac-

• cept the purple as a restitution, rather than a gift. Of

these competitors, one had been removed by exile, and

afterward by death; and the emperor himself had in­

flicted such cruel insults on another, that he must either

dread his resentment or despise his patience. This do­

mestic animosity was refined into a generous resolution of

seeking a successor, not in his family, but in the repub­

lic: and the artful Sophia recommended Tiberius,b his

faithful captain of the guards, whose virtues and fortune

the emperor might cherish as the fruit of his judicious

choice. The ceremony of his elevation to the rank of AmocU-

Cassar or Augustus, was performed in the portico of the Tinerins,

palace, in the presence of the patriarch and the senate. December.'

Justin collected the remaining strength of his mind and

body, but the popular belief that his speech was inspired

by the Deity betrays a very humble opinion both of the

man and of the times.0—" You behold (said the emperor)

the ensigns of supreme power. You are about to receive

them not from my hand, but from the hand of God.

Honour them, and from them you will derive honour.

Respect the empress your mother ; you are now her son;

before, you were her servant. Delight not in blood, ab­

stain from revenge, avoid those actions by which I have

incurred the public hatred, and consult the experience

rather than the example of your predecessor. As a man,

I have sinned; as a sinner, even in this life, I have been

severely punished : but these servants (and he pointed to

his ministers) who have abused my confidence, and in-

flamedmy passions, willappear with mebeforethe tribunal

of Christ. I have been dazzled by the splendour of the

b The praise bestowed on princes before their elevation, is the purest and
most

weighty. Corippus has celebrated Tiberius at the time of the accession of
Justin.

(lib. 1. 212—222.) Yet even a captain of the guards might attract the flattery
of an

African exile.

c Evagrius (lib. 5. c. 13.) has added the reproach to his ministers. He
applies this

speech to the ceremony when Tiberius was invested with the rank of Caesar. The
loose

expression, rather than the positive error, of Theophanes, &o. has delayed it
to his

Augustan investituro immediately before the death of Justin.

2 E 2

