CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

might have crushed, at their first landing, the feeble and

exhausted bands of the Roman general. But the friends

of the captive king were more inclined to accept the in­

vitations, than to resist the progress, of Belisarius; and

many a proud barbarian disguised his aversion to war un­

der the more specious name of his hatred to the usurper.

Yet the authority and promises of Gelimer collected a

formidable army, and his plans were concerted with

some degree of military skill. An order was dispatched

to his brother Ammatas, to collect all the forces of Car­

thage, and to encounter the van of the Roman army at

the distance of ten miles from the city; his nephew Gi-

bamund, with two thousand horse, was destined to attack

their left, when the monarch himself, who silently fol­

lowed, should charge their rear, in a situation which ex­

cluded them from the aid, or even the view, of their fleet.

But the rashness of Ammatas was fatal to himself and his

country. He anticipated the hour of attack, outstripped

his tardy followers, and was pierced with a mortal wound,

after he had slain with his own hand twelve of his boldest

antagonists. His Vandals fled to Carthage; the high­

way, almost ten miles, was strewed with dead bodies; and

it seemed incredible, that such multitudes could be

slaughtered by the swords of three hundred Romans. The

nephew of Gelimer was defeated, after a slight combat, by

the six hundred Massagetas: they did not equal the

third part of his numbers: but each Scythian was fired

by the example of his chief, who gloriously exercised the

privilege of his family, by riding foremost and alone to

shoot the first arrow against the enemy. In the mean­

while, Gelimer himself, ignorant of the event, and mis­

guided by the windings of the hills, inadvertently passed

the Roman army, and reached the scene of action where

Ammatas had fallen. He wept the fate of his brother

and of Carthage, charged with irresistible fury the ad­

vancing squadrons, and might have pursued, and perhaps

decided, the victory, if he had not wasted those inesti­

