DECLINE AND FALL [cBAP. XLI.

lisarius, on the other side, diverted the attention of the

Goths by a vigorous and successful skirmish. These

seasonable aids, the use and reputation of which were

dexterously managed by the Roman general, revived the

courage, or at least the hopes, of the soldiers and peo­

ple. The historian Procopius was dispatched with an

important commission to collect the troops and provi­

sions which Campania could furnish, or Constantinople

had sent; and the secretary of Belisarius was soon fol­

lowed by Antonina herself/ who boldly traversed the

posts of the enemy, and returned with the oriental suc­

cours to the relief of her husband and the besieged city.

A fleet of three thousand Isaurians cast anchor in the bay

of Naples, and afterward at Ostia. Above two thou­

sand horse, of whom a part were Thracians, landed at

Tarentum ; and, after the junction of five hundred sol­

diers of Campania, and a train of waggons laden with

wine and flour, they directed their march on the Appian

way, from Capua to the neighbourhood of Rome. The

forces that arrived by land and sea were united at the

mouth of the Tiber. Antonina convened a council of

war: it was resolved to surmount, with sails and oars,,

the adverse stream of the river: and the Goths were

apprehensive of disturbing, by any rash hostilities, the

negotiation to which Belisarius had craftily listened.

They credulously believed, that they saw no more than

the vanguard of a fleet and army, which already covered

the Ionian sea and the plains of Campania; and the illu­

sion was supported by the haughty language of the Ro­

man general, when he gave audience to the ambassadors

of Vitiges. After a specious discourse to vindicate the

justice of his cause, they declared that, for the sake of

peace, they were disposed to renounce the possession of

Sicily. "The emperor is not less generous (replied

bastian. (see Nolli's plan.) That memorable spot has been consecrated by the
Ege-

rian grove, the memory of Nnma, triumphal arches, the sepulchres of the
Scipios,

Metelli, &c.

* The expression-of Procopius has an invidious cast—rvyyv e* rov ay^»>.eu{ tnv  
vqifi s-vfiSfrojifm xowitxtir. (Goth, lib. 2. c. 4.) Yet he is speakiog of a
nonuiti.

