CHAP. XlIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

wheat, was exchanged for seven pieces of gold; fifty

pieces were given for an ox, a rare and accidental prize;

the progress of famine enhanced this exorbitant, yal^e,

and the mercenaries were tempted to deprive themselves

of the allowance, which was scarcely sufficient for the

support of life. A tasteless and unwholesome mixture,

in which the bran thrice exceeded the quantity of flour,

appeased the hunger of the poor; they were gradually'

reduced to feed on dead horses, dogs, cats, and mice,

and eagerly to snatch the grass, and even the nettles,

which grew among the ruins of the city. A crowd of

spectres, pale and emaciated, their bodies oppressed with

disease, and their minds with despair, surrounded the

palace of the governor, urged, with unavailing truth,

that it was the duty of a master to maintain his slaves,

and humbly requested that he would provide for their

-subsistence, permit their flight, or Gommand their imme­  
diate execution. Bessas replied, with unfeeling tran­

quillity, that it was impossible to feed, unsafe to dismiss,

and unlawful to kill, the subjects of the emperor. Yet

the example of a private citizen might have shewn his

countrymen, that a tyrant cannot withhold the privilege

of death. Pierced by the cries of five children, who

vainly called on their father for bread, he ordered them

to follow his steps, advanced with calm and silent despair

to one of the bridges of the Tiber, and, covering his

- face, threw himself headlong into the stream, in the pre­  
sence of his family and the Roman people. To the rich

• and pusillanimous, Bessas"1 sold the permission of depar­

ture; but the greatest part of the fugitives expired on

the public highways, or were intercepted by the flying

parties of Barbarians. In the meanwhile, the artful go­

vernor soothed the discontent, and revived the hopes, of

m The avarice of Bessas is not dissembled by Prooopias. (lib. 3. c. 17. 20.)
He

expiated the loss of Rome by the glorious conquest of Petrsea: (Goth. lib. 4.
c. 12.)

'but the same vices followed him from the Tiber to the Phasis; (c. 13.) aud
the his­

torian is equally true to the merits and defects of his character. The
chastisement

which the author of the romance of Belisaire has inflicted on the oppressors
of Rome

is more agreeable to justice than to history.

