DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP, XL^

to the attack of villages and defenceless towns; their fly-r

ing parties have sometimes touched the Hellespont, the

Euxine, and the gates of Tarsus, Antioch, or Damascus ;f-

and the spoil was lodged in their inaccessible mountains,

before the Roman troops had received their orders, or

the distant province had computed its loss. The guilt

of rebellion and robbery excluded them from the rights

of national enemies; and the magistrates were instructed

by an edict, that the trial or punishment of an Isaurian,

even on the festival of Easter, was a meritorious act of

justice and piety.B If the captives were condemned to

domestic slavery, they maintained, with their sword or

dagger, the private quarrel of their masters; and it was.

found expedient for the public tranquillity, to prohibit

the service of such dangerous retainers. When their

countryman Tarcalissaeus or Zeno ascended the throne,

he invited a faithful and formidable band of Isaurians,

who insulted the court and city, and were rewarded by

an annual tribute of five thousand pounds of gold. But

the hopes of fortune depopulated the mountains, luxury,

enervated the hardiness of their minds and bodies,.and in,

proportion as they mixed with mankind, they became

less qualified for the enjoyment of poor and solitary free­

dom. After the death of Zeno, his successor Anastasius

suppressed their pensions, exposed their persons to the

revenge of the people, banished them from Constant! -

nople, and prepared to sustain a war, which left only the

alternative of victory or servitude. A brother of the

last emperor usurped the title of Augustus; his cause

was powerfully supported by the arms, the treasures, and

the magazines, collected by Zeno; and the native Isau­

rians must have formed the smallest portion of the hun­

dred and fifty thousand barbarians under his standard,

f See the full and wide extent of their inroads in PhilostorgiuJ, (Hist.
Eccles. lib.,

ll.c. 8.) with Godefro^'s learned Dissertations.

E Cod. Justinian, lib. 9. tit. 12. leg. 10. The punishments are severe—a line
of a

hundred pounds of gold, degradation, and even death. The public peace might
af­

ford a pretence, but Zeno was desirous of monopolizing the valour and service
of the

Isaurians.

