CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 7Q

1

abused her triumph over the impotence of the laws.

VI. The testament of Eulalius, count of the domestics,

declared the emperor his sole heir, on condition, how­

ever, that he should discharge his debts and legacies,

allow to his three daughters a decent maintenance, and

bestow each of them in marriage, with a portion of ten

pounds of gold. But the splendid fortune of Eulalius

had been consumed by fire; and the inventory of his

goods did not exceed the trifling sum of five hundred

and sixty-four pieces of gold. A similar instance in

Grecian history, admonished the emperor of the honour­

able part prescribed for his imitation. He checked the

selfish murmurs of the treasury, applauded the confidence

of his friend, discharged the legacies and debts, educated

the three virgins under the eye of the empress Theodora,

and doubled the marriage-portion which had satisfied

the tenderness of their father." The humanity of a

prince (for princes cannot be generous) is entitled to

some praise; yet even in this act of virtue we may dis­

cover the inveterate custom of supplanting the legal or

natural heirs, which Procopius imputes to the reign of

Justinian. His charge is supported by eminent names

and scandalous examples; neither widows nor orphans

were spared; and the art of soliciting, or extorting, or

supposing testaments, was beneficially practised by the

agents of the palace. This base and mischievous tyranny

invades the security of private life; and the monarch,

who has indulged an appetite for gain, will soon be tempt­

ed to anticipate the moment of succession, to interpret

wealth as an evidence of guilt, and to proceed, from the

claim of inheritance, to the power of confiscation,

VII. Among the forms of rapine, a philosopher may be

permitted to name the conversion of Pagan or heretical

riches to the use of the faithful; but in the time of Jus­

tinian this holy plunder was condemned by the sec-

» A similar or more generous acl of friendship is related by Lncian of
Kudanmlas

of Corinth, (in Toiare, o. 22, 23. turn. I. p. 530.) and the story hat
prodaced an in-

jftiious, though feeble, comedy of Fonlencllc.

