DECLINE AND FALL, &C. {CHAP. XLVI.

France and India: and the feme of Moses, Alexander,

and Hercules," was eclipsed, in the popular estimation, by

the superior merit and glory of the great Heraclius. Yet

the deliverer of the east was indigent and feeble. Of the

Persian spoils, the most valuable portion had been ex­

pended in the war, distributed to the soldiers, or buried,

by an unlucky tempest, in the waves of the Euxine.

The conscience of the emperor was oppressed by the ob­

ligation of restoring the wealth of the clergy, which he

had borrowed for their own defence: a perpetual fund

was required to satisfy these inexorable creditors; the

provinces, already wasted by the arms and avarice of the

Persians, were compelled to a second payment of the

same taxes; and the arrears of a simple citizen, the trea­

surer of Damascus, were commuted to a fine of one hun­

dred thousand pieces of gold. The loss of two hundred

thousand soldiers* who had fallen by the sword, was of

less fatal importance than the decay of arts, agriculture,

and population, in this long and destructive war: and

although a victorious army had been formed under the

standard of Heraclius, the unnatural effort appears to

have exhausted rather than exercised their strength.

While the emperor triumphed at Constantinople or Je­

rusalem, an obscure town on the confines of Syria was

pillaged by the Saracens, and they cut in pieces some

troops who advanced to its relief: an ordinary and trifling

occurrence, had it not been the prelude of a mighty

revolution. These robbers were the apostles of Maho­

met; their fanatic valour had emerged from the desert;

and in the last eight years of his reign, Heraclius lost to

the Arabs the same provinces which he had rescued from

the Persians.

« George of Pisitlia, Acroas. 3. de Expedit. contra Persas, 415, &c. and Hera-

cleid, Acroas. 1. 65—138. I neglect the meaner parallels of Daniel, Timotheus,
&c.

Chosroes and the chagan were of course compared to Belshazzar, Pharaoh, the
ord

serpent, &c.

* Suidas (in Excerpt. Hist. Byzant. p. 46.) gives this number; but either the  
Persian must be read for the I saurian war, or this passage does not belong to
the em­

peror Heraclius.

END OF VOL. V.

Printed by J. F. Dove, St. John's Square, London.

