$58 ." DECLIKE A If D FALL pCHAP, XLlYi

was unwilling to relinquish his slave. When the Roman

matrons became the equal and voluntary companions of

their lords, a new jurisprudence was introduced, that

marriage, like other partnerships, might be dissolved by

the abdication of one of the associates. In three centu-

ries of prosperity and corruption, this principle was en-.

Jarged to frequent practice and pernicious abuse. Pas-

• • sion, interest, or caprice, suggested daily motives for the

dissolution of marriage; a word, a sign, a message, a let­

ter, the mandate of a freedman, declared, the separation;

the most tender bf human connexions was degraded to a

transient society of profit or pleasure. According to the

various conditions of life, both sexes alternately felt the

disgrace and injury; an inconstant spouse transferred

her wealth to a new family, abandoning a numerous, per*

haps a spurious, progeny to the paternal authority and

care of her late husband; a beautiful virgin might bo

dismissed to the world, old, indigent and friendless; but

the reluctance of the Romans, when they were pressed

to marriage by Augustus, sufficiently marks, that tb»

prevailing institutions were least favourable to the males,

A specious theory is confuted by this free and perfeet ex­

periment, which demonstrates, that the liberty of divorce

does not contribute to happiness and virtue. The faci­

lity of separation would destroy all mutual confidence,

and inflame every trifling dispute': the minute difference

between a husband and a stranger, which might so easily

be removed, might still more easily be forgotten; and

the matron, who in five years can submit to the em­

braces of eight husbands, must cease to reverence the

chastity of her own person.1

Limiia- Insufficient remedies followed, with distant and tardy

tions of 'r

the liberty k -iSio fiunt octo niariti

of divorce. . Quinque per automnos. Juvenal. Satir. C. 20.

A rapid succession, which may yet be credible, as well as the non consilium
numere,

sed maritorum annos suos computant, of Seneca, (de Uencficiis, 3.16.) Jerome
saw at

Kome a triumphant hushand bury his twenty-first wife, who had interred twenty-
two

of his less sturdy predecessors. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 90. ad Geroutiam.) Bat the
ten

husbands iu a month of the poet Martial, is an extravagant bypei bule. (lib.
4. epi­

gram. 7.) "..' .

