DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. XLI.

ror. His departure was secret; but as soon as the Van­

dals discovered that their king had deserted them, they

hastily dispersed, anxious only for their personal safety,

and careless of every object that is dear or valuable to

mankind. The Romans entered the camp without re­

sistance; and the wildest scenes of disorder were veiled

in the darkness and confusion of the night. Every bar­

barian who met their swords was inhumanly massacred;

their widows and daughters, as rich heirs, or beautiful

concubines, were embraced by the licentious soldiers;

and avarice itself was almost satiated with the treasures

of gold and silver, the accumulated fruits of conquest or

economy in a long period of prosperity and peace. In

this frantic search, the troops, even of Belisarius, forgot

their caution and respect. Intoxicated with lust and ra­

pine, they explored in small parties, or alone, the adja­

cent fields, the woods, the rocks, and the caverns, that

might possibly conceal any desirable prize: laden with

booty, they deserted their ranks, and wandered, without

a guide, on the high road to Carthage ; and if the flying

enemies had dared to return, very few of the conquerors

would have escaped. Deeply sensible of the disgrace

and danger, Belisarius passed an apprehensive night in

the field of victory: at the dawn of day, he planted his

standard on a hill, recalled his guards and veterans, and

gradually restored the modesty and obedience of the

camp. It was equally the concern of the Roman general to

subdue the hostile, and to save the prostrate barbarian;

and the suppliant Vandals, who could be found only in

churches, were protected by his authority, disarmed, and

separately confined, that they might neither disturb the

public peace, nor become the victims of popular revenge.

After dispatching a light detachment to tread the foot­

steps of Gelimer, he advanced with his whole army,

about ten days' march, as far as Hippo Regius, which no

longer possessed the relics of St. Augustin/ The season,

* The relics nf St. Aognttin were carried by the African hishops to their Sardinian  
exile; (A. D. 500.) and it was believed in the eighth century, that Liutprand,
king

