-DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XH.

period, the circumference of Naples* measured only two

thousand three hundred and sixty-three paces :y the for­

tifications were defended by precipices or the sea: when

the aqueducts were intercepted, a supply of water might

be drawn from wells and fountains; and the stock of

provisions was sufficient to consume the patience of the

besiegers. At the end of twenty days, that of Belisarius

was almost exhausted, and he had reconciled himself to

the disgrace of abandoning the siege, that he might

march, before the winter season, against Rome and the

Gothic king. But his anxiety was relieved by the bold

curiosity of an Isaurian, who explored the dry channel of

an aqueduct, and secretly reported, that a passage might

be perforated to introduce a file of armed soldiers into

the heart of the city. When the work had been silently

executed, the humane general risked the discovery of

his secret, by a last and fruitless admonition of the im­

pending danger. In the darkness of the night, four

hundred Romans entered the aqueduct, raised them­

selves by a rope, which they fastened to an olive tree,

into the house or garden of a solitary matron, sounded

their trumpets, surprised the sentinels, and gave ad­

mittance to their companions, who, on all sides, scaled

the walls, and burst open the gates of the city. Every

crime which is punished by social justice, was practised

as the rights of war; the Huns were distinguished by

cruelty and sacrilege, and Belisarius alone appeared in

the streets and churches of Naples, to moderate the ca­

lamities which he predicted. "The gold and silver,"

he repeatedly exclaimed, "are the just rewards of your

valour. But spare the inhabitants, they are Christians,

they are suppliants, they are now your fellow-subjects.

x This measure was taken by Roger I. after the conquest of Naples (A. 1)
1133),

which he made the oapital of his new kingdom. (Giannone/lstoria Civile,
tom.~2^

p. 169.) That city, the third in Christian Europe, is now at least twelve
miles in

circumference, (JuI.Caesar. Capaccii Hist. Neopol. lib. 1. p. 47.) and
contains more

inhahitants (three hundred and fifty thousand) in a given space, than any
other spot

in the known world.

v Not geometrical, but common, paces or steps, of twenty-two French inches:

(d'Anville, Mesurcs Itineraires, p. 7, 8.) the two thousand three hundred and
sixty-

thiee do not make an English mile.

