decline and fall [chap, xliii.

liberate cruelty; but in the conspiracies which attacked

his authority and person, a more candid judge will ap­

prove ^he justice or admire the clemency of Justinian.

He excelled in the private virtues of chastity and tempe­

rance: but the impartial love of beauty would have been

less mischievous, than his conjugal tenderness for Theo­

dora, and his abstemious diet was regulated, not by the

prudence of a philosopher, but the superstition of a monk.

His repasts were short and frugal: on solemn fasts, he

contented himself with water and vegetables; and such

was his strength as well as fervour, that he frequently

passed two days and as many nights without tasting any

food. The measure of his sleep was not less rigorous:

after the repose of a single hour, the body was awakened

by the soul, and, to the astonishment of his chamberlains,

Justinian walked or studied till the morning light. Such

restless application prolonged his time for the acquisition

of knowledge,0 and the dispatch of business: and he

, might seriously deserve the reproach of confounding, b)'

.minute and preposterous diligence, the general order of

his administration. The emperor professed himself a

musician and architect, a poet and philosopher, a lawyer

and theologian: and if he failed in the enterprise of re­

conciling the Christian sects, the review of the Roman

jurisprudence is a noble monument of his spirit and in­

dustry.- In the government of the empire, he was less

wise or less successful: the age was unfortunate; the peo­

ple was oppressed and discontented; Theodora abused

her power; a succession of bad ministers disgraced his

judgment; and Justinian was neither beloved in his life,

nor regretted at his death. The love of fame was deep­

ly implanted in his breast, but he condescended to the

poor ambition of titles, honours, and contemporary

praise; and while he laboured to fix the admiration, he

c The studies and soience of Justinian are attested by the confession,
(Anecdot. c.

8. 13.) still more than by the praises (Go.hie. lib. 3. c. 31. de'Edific. lib.
1. Proem,

c. 7,} of Procopius. Consult the copious index uf Ali-mannus, and read the
life of

Justinian by Ladewig. (p. 135—14'^.)

