DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

received an edict which deducted from their pay the price

of their arms and clothing, they execrated the avarice of

a prince insensible of the dangers and fatigues from which

he had escaped. The camps both of Asia and Europe

were agitated with frequent and furious seditions;5 the

enraged soldiers of Edessa pursued, with reproaches, with

threats, with wounds, their trembling generals: they

overturned the statues of the emperor, cast stones against

the miraculous image of Christ, and either rejected the

yoke of all civil and military laws, or instituted a danger­

ous model of voluntary subordination. The monarch,

always distant, and often deceived, was incapable of yield­

ing or persisting according to the exigence of the mo­

ment. But the fear of a general revolt induced him too

readily to accept any act of valour, or any expression of

loyalty, as an atonement for the popular offence; the

new reform was abolished as hastily as it had been an­

nounced, and the troops, instead of punishment and re­

straint, were agreeably surprised by a gracious proclama­

tion of immunities and rewards. But the soldiers accept­

ed without gratitude the tardy and reluctant gifts of the

emperor; their insolence was elated by the discovery of

his weakness and their own strength; and their mutual

hatred was inflamed beyond the desire of forgiveness or

the hope of reconciliation. The historians of the times

adopt the vulgar suspicion, that Maurice conspired to de­

stroy the troops whom he had laboured to reform; the mis­

conduct and favour of Commentiolus are imputed to this

malevolent design; and every age m ust condemn the inhu­

manity or avarice' of a prince, Who by the trifling ransom

of six thousand pieces of gold, might have prevented the

massacre of twelve thousand prisoners in the hands of the

• See the mutinies under the reign of Maurice, in Theophylact, lib. 3. e. 1—4;

lib. 6. o. 7, 8. 10; lib. 7. o. 1; lib. 8. c. 6, &c.

4 Theophylact and Theophanes seem ignorant of the conspiracy and avarice of

Maurice. These charges, so unfavourable to the memory of that emperor, are
6rst

mentioned by the author of the Paschal Chronicle; (p. 379* 380) from whence
Zona-

ras (tom. 1. lib. 14. p. 77, 78.) has,transcribed them. Cedrenus (p. 399.) baa
fol­

lowed another computation of the ransom.

