CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4Q

tive of Tyre, who had obtained the government of the

African Pentapolis. But this union was frail and tran­

sient: Ecebolus soon rejected an expensive or faithless

cdncubine; she was reduced at Alexandria to extreme

distress; and, in her laborious return to Constantinople,

every city of the east admired and enjoyed the fair Cy­

prian, whose merit appeared to justify her descent from

the peculiar island of Venus. The vague commerce of

Theodora, and the most detestable precautions, preserved

her from the danger which she feared; yet once, and once

only, she became a mother. The infant was saved and edu­

cated in Arabia, by his father, who imparted to him on his

death-bed, that he was the son of an empress. Filled with

ambitious hopes, the unsuspecting youth immediately

hastened to the palace of Constantinople, and was ad­

mitted to the presence of his mother. As he was never

more seen, even after the decease of Theodora, she de­

serves the foul imputation of extinguishing with his life

a secret so offensive to her imperial virtue.

In the most abject state of her fortune and reputa- Herniary

tion, some vision, either of sleep or of fancy, had whis- jtaUniik.

pered to Theodora the pleasing assurance that she was

destined to become the spouse of a potent monarch.

Conscious of her approaching greatness, she returned

from Paphlagonia to Constantinople; assumed, like a

skilful actress, a more decent character; relieved her

poverty by the laudable industry of spinning wool; and

affected a life of chastity and solitude in a small house,

which she afterward changed into a magnificent temple.d

Her beauty, assisted by art or accident, soon attracted,

captivated, and fixed, the patrician Justinian, who al­

ready reigned with absolute sway under the name of his

uncle. Perhaps she contrived to enhance the value of

a gift which she had so often lavished on the meanest of

d Anonym, de Antiqnitat. C. P. lib. 3. 132. in Banduri Imperium Orient, tom.
1.

p. 48. Iju<lcwig(p. 151.) argoes sensibly that Theodora would not have immor­

talized a brothel; but 1 auply this tact to her second and chaster residence
at Con-

itantioople.

