DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

the praetor, *o the cognisance of external actions: virtu­

ous principles and habits were inculcated by the discipline

of education; and the Roman father was accountable to

the state for the manners of his children, since he dis­

posed, without appeal, of their life, their liberty, and their

inheritance. In some pressing emergencies, the citizen

was authorized to avenge his private or public wrongs.

The consent of the Jewish, the Athenian, and the Ro­

man laws, approved the slaughter of the nocturnal ihief;

though in open daylight a robber could not be slain with­

out some previous evidence pf danger and complaint.

Whoever surprised an adulterer in his nuptial bed might

freely exercise his revengethe most bloody or wan­

ton outrage was excused by the provocationnor was

it before the reign of Augustus that the husband was re­

duced to weigh the rank, of the offender, or that the pa­

rent was condemned to sacrifice his daughter with her

guilty seducer. After the expulsion of the kings, the am­

bitious Roman who should dare to assume their title, or

imitate their tyranny, was devoted to the infernal gods:

each of his fellow-citizens was armed with a sword of

justice; and the act of Brutus, however repugnant to

gratitude or prudence, had been already sanctified by the

judgment of his country.™ The barbarous practice of

wearing arms in the midst of peace," and the bloody

maxims of honour, were unknown to the Romans; and,

during the two purest ages, from the establishment of

* The first speech of Lysias (Reiske, Orator. Graec. tom. 5. p. 2—48.) is in de­  
fence of a hushand who had killed the adulterer. The right of hushands ami
fathers

at Rome and Athens is discussed with mnch learning by Dr. Taylor. (Lectiones
Ly-

eiacae, c. 11. in Reiske, tom. 6. p. 301—308.)

'See Casaobon ad Athenaeum, (lib, 1. o. 5. p. 19.) Percurrent raphanique ma-

gilesque. (Catull. p. 41, 43. edit. Vossian). Ha DO mugilis i nt rat.
(Juvenal, Satir.

10. 317.) Huno perminxere calones (Horat. lib. 1. Satir. 2. 44.) familiae
stupran-

dum dedit. . . fraudi non fait. (Val. Maxim, lib. 6. c. l.Bo. 13.)

u This law is noticed by Livy (2. 8.) and Plutarch; (in Publicola, tom. 1. p.
197.)

and it fully justifies the public opinion on the death of Caesar, which
Suetonius could

publish under the imperial government. Jure caesus existimatur. (in Julio, o.
76.)

Read the letters that passed between Cicero and Marias a few months after the
ides

or March, (ad Fam. 11. 27,28.)

11 njojroi Si aSwoioi tov rt a-i5nfw jtartSfwo. Thncydid. lib. 1. c. 6. The
historian

who considers this circumstance as the test of civilization, would disdain the
har­

barism of an European court.

