CHAP.XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 215

in the country of the Alanik and Circassians, where they

first heard of the splendour and weakness of the Roman

empire. They humbly requested their confederate, the

prince of the Alani, to lead them to this source of riches;

and their ambassador, with the permission of the go­

vernor of Lazica, was transported by the Euxine sea to

Constantinople. The whole city was poured forth to

behold with curiosity and terror the aspect of a strange

people; their long hair, which hung in tresses down

their backs, was gracefully bound with ribbons, but the

rest of their habit appeared to imitate the fashion of the

Huns. When they were admitted to the audience of Their em-

Justinian, Candish, the first of the ambassadors, address- cXan-

ed the Roman emperor in these terms.—" You see be- ^"°^lci58

fore you, O mighty prince, the representatives of the

strongest and most populous of nations, the invincible,

the irresistible Avars. We are willing to devote our­

selves to your service: we are able to vanquish and de^-

stroy all the enemies who now disturb your repose. But

we expect, as the price of our alliance, as the reward of

our valour, precious gifts, annual subsidies, and fruitful

possessions." At the time of this embassy, Justinian had

reigned above thirty, he had lived above seventy-five

years: his mind, as well as his body, was feeble and

languid; and the conqueror of Africa and Italy, careless . ■

of the permanent interest of his people, aspired only to

end his days in the bosom even of inglorious peace. In

a studied oration, he imparted to the senate his resolution

to dissemble the insult, and to purchase the friendship,

of the Avars; and the whole senate, like the mandarins

of China, applauded the incomparable wisdom and fore-:

sight of their sovereign. The instruments of luxury

were immediately prepared to captivate the barbarians;

silken garments, soft and splendid beds, and chains and

*'Tin'Alani are still found in l^ie Genealogical History of the Tartars, (p. 617.)  
and in d'Anville's maps. They opposed the march of (he generals of Zingis
round

the Caspian sea, and were overthrown in a great battle. (Hist, de Gengiscan,
lib. 4.

c 9. p. 447.)

