DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLiy.

wishes and motives to the assembly of thirty curiae or pa­

rishes, and the general law of inheritance was suspended

by an occasional act of the legislature. After the permis­

sion of the decemvirs, each private lawgiver promulgated

his verbal or written testament in the presence of five citi­

zens, who represented the five classes of the Roman peo­

ple ; a sixth witness attested their concurrence; a seventh

weighed the copper money, which was paid by an ima­

ginary purchaser; and the estate was emancipated by a

fictitious sale and immediate release. This singular ce­

remony,° which excited the wonder of the Greeks, was

still practised in the age of Severus; but the praetors had

already approved a more simple testament, for which they

required the seals and signatures of seven witnesses, free

from all legal exception, and purposely summoned for

the execution of that important act. A domestic mo­

narch, who reigned over the lives and fortunes of his

children, might distribute their respective shares accord­

ing to the degrees of their merit or his affection: his ar­

bitrary displeasure chastised an unworthy son by the loss

of his inheritance and the mortifying preference of a

stranger. But the experience of unnatural parents re­

commended some limitations of their testamentary powr

ers. A son, or, by the laws of Justinian, even a daughter,

could no longer be disinherited by their silence: they

were compelled to name the criminal, and to specify the

offence; and the justice of the emperor enumerated the

sole causes that could justify such a violation of the first

principles of nature and society." Unless a legitimate

portion, a fourth part, had been reserved for the children,

they were entitled to institute an action or complaint of

ther'only could make a will. (Plutarch, in Solon, tom. 1. p. 164. See Isaeas
and

Jones.)

° The testament of Augustus is Specified by Suetonius, (in Angnst. o. 101. in
Ne-

ron. c. 4.) who may be studied as a code of Roman Antiquities. Plutarch
(Opuscal.

tom. 2. p. 976.) is surprised a-rav 5s 5iaflnxa; ypajpxnv infws jwev
a■jrotentou<rvt jeta-

pmfxovs, ErSfoi 5e iriahova-i rei; oi/fl-iet?. The language of TJlpian
(Fragment, tit. 20.

p. 627. edit. Sohultiug) is almost too exclnsivc—solum in usu est.

I' Justinian (Novel. 115. no. 3, 4.) enumerates only the public and private
crimes,

for which a sun might likewise disinherit his father.

