368 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIY,

cwu de- branches. The degrees of kindred*1 are numbered by

grees of . »

kindred, the civilians, ascending from the last possessor to a com­

mon parent, and descending from the common parent

to the next heir: my father stands in the first degree,

my brother in the second, his children in the third, and

the remainder of the series may be conceived by fancy,

or pictured in a genealogical table. In Jthis computation,

a distinction was made, essential to the laws and even the

constitution of Rome; the agnats, or persons connect­

ed by a line of males, were called, as they stood in the

nearest degree, to an equal partition; but a female was

incapable of transmitting any legal claims; and the cog­

nate of every rank, without excepting the dear relation of

a mother and a son, were disinherited by the twelve

tables, as strangers and aliens. Among the Romans, a

gens or lineage was united by a common name and do­

mestic rites :. the various cognomens or surnames of Sci-

pio or Marcellus, distinguished from each other the sub­

ordinate branches or families of the Cornelian or Clau-

dian ra.ce: the default of the agnats, of the same sur­

name, was supplied by the larger denomination of Gen­

tiles i and the vigilance of the laws maintained, in the

same name, the perpetual descent of religion and pra^-

perty. A similar principle dictated the Voconian law,'

wh?ch abolished the right of female inheritance. As

long as virgins were given or sold in marriage, the adop­

tion of the wife extinguished the hopes of the daughter.

E;ut the equal succession pf independent matrons sup­

ported their pride and luxury, and might transport into

a foreign house the riches of their fathers. While

the maxims of Catok were revered, they tended to per-

* Blackstnne's Tables (vol. 2. p. 202.) represent and compare the degrees of the  
civil with those of the canon and common law. A separate tract of Julius
Paulus, de

gradibus et afbnibus, is inserted or abridged in the Pandects, (lib. 38. tit.
10.) In

the seventh degrees he computes (no. 18,) one thousand and twenty-four
persons.

'1 The Voconian law was enacted in the year of Rome 584. 'The younger Scipio,

who was then seventeen years of age, (Frenshemius, Supplement. Livian. 46.
40.)

found an occasion of exercising his generosity to his mother, sisters, &c.
(Polyhius,

tom. t. lib. S\. p. 1453—1464.'edit. Gronov. .a domestic wituess.)

J1 Legem Voconiam ^Ernesti, Clavis Ciceroniana) magna voce bonis lateribus (at

