CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 301

About two years after the last victory of Belisarius, the His dis-

r mi • • nit grace and

emperor returned from a Thracian journey of health, or death,

business, or devotion. Justinian was afflicted by a pain A.D"561'

in his head; and his private entry countenanced the

rumour of his death. Before the third hour of the day,

the baker's shops were plundered of their bread, the

houses were shut up, and every citizen, with hope or

terror, prepared for the impending tumult. The sena­

tors themselves, fearful and suspicious, were convened at

the ninth hour; and the prefect received their com­

mands to visit every quarter of the city, and proclaim a

general illumination for the recovery of the emperor's

health. The ferment subsided; but every accident be­

trayed the impotence of the government and the factious

temper of the people: the guards were disposed to mu­

tiny as often as their quarters were changed or their pay

was withheld: the frequent calamities of fires and earth­

quakes afforded the opportunities of disorder; the dis­

putes of the blues and greens, of the orthodox and here­

tics, degenerated into bloody battles; and in the pre­

sence of the Persian ambassador, Justinian blushed for

himself and for his subjects. Capricious pardon and

arbitrary punishment embittered the irksomeness and

discontent of a long reign: a conspiracy was formed in

the palace; and, unless we are deceived by the names of

Marcellus and Sergius, the most virtuous and the most

profligate of the courtiers were associated in the same de­

signs. They had fixed the time of the execution; their

rank gave them access to the royal banquet; and their

black slaves' were stationed in the vestibule and porticos,

to announce the death of the tyrant, and to excite a se-

.dition in the capital. But the indiscretion of an accom­

plice saved the poor remnant of the days of Justinian.

ed in the prolix declamation of Agathias, (lib. 5. p. 154—174.) and the dry
chronicle

of Theophanes. (p. 197, 198.)

1 iv5ou;. They could scarcely be real Indians; and the Ethiopians, sometimes

known by that name, were never used by the ancients as guards or followers:
they

were the trifling, though costly, objects of female and royal luxury. (Terent
Eu­

nuch, act 1. scene 2. Sueton. in August. v. 83. with a good note of Caiaubun,
in Ca­

ligula, c. 57.)

