CHAP. XMV.J OF THE SOMAN IMtIRE,

steps, the rapid progress of the evil. The ancient war*

ship of the Romans afforded a peculiar goddess to hear

and reconcile the complaints of a married life; but her

epithet of Firiplaca} the appeaser of husbands, too clear­

ly indicates on which side submission and repentance

were always expeoted. Every act of a citizen was sub­

ject to the judgment of the censors; the first who used

Ihe privilege of divorce assigned, at their command, the

motives of his conduct ;m and a senator was expelled for

dismissing his virgin spouse without the knowledge or

advice of his friends. Whenever an action was instituted

for the recovery of a marriage portion, the praetor, as the

guardian of equity, examined the cause and the charac­

ters, and gently inclined the scale in favour of the guilt-

Jess and injured party. Augustus, who united the pow­

ers of both magistrates, adopted their different modes of

repressing or chastising the license of divorce.* The

presence of seven Roman witnesses was required for the

•validity of this solemn and deliberate act: if any ade­

quate provocation had been given by the husband, in­

stead of the delay of two years, he was compelled to re­

fund immediately, or in the space of six months; but if

he could arraign the manners of his wife, her guilt or

levity was expiated by the loss of the sixth or eighth part

of her marriage portion. The Christian princes were

■the first who specified the just causes of a private di­

vorce; their institutions, from Constantine to Justinian,

appear to fluctuate between the custom of the empire

and the wishes of the church,° and the author of the No-

.yels too frequently reforms the jurisprudence of the Code

and Pandects. In the most rigorous laws, a wife was

1 Sacellum Viriplac:e(Valerias Maxitnns, lib. 2. c. 1.) in the Palatine region
ap­

pears in the time of Theodosias, in the description of Kome by Publius Victor.

m Valerian Maximas, lib. 2. c. 9. With some propriety be judges divorce more

criminal than oelihacy: illo namque conjngalia sacra spreta tantom, hoc etiam
injn-

riose traotata.

"See the laws of Augustus and his suooessors, in Heineccius, ad Legem Papiam

Poppwam, c. 19. in Opp. tom. 6. P. 1. p. 323—333.

° Aliae sunt leges Cwsarum, aliae Christi ; alind Papinianus, aliud Paulus
nos-

,tor praeoir.it. (Jeroni. tom. 1. f. 198. Seldon, Uxor Ebraica, lib. 3, c. 31.
p.

847—853.) x -"

