DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

conduct of each citizen was exposed to the eyes and ears

of his friends and countrymen. The insolvent debtor

consulted the wishes of his creditor: the client would

have blushed to oppose the vieWs of his patron: the ge­

neral was followed by his veterans, and the aspect of the

grave magistrate Was a living lesson to the multitude. A

new method of secret ballot abolished the influence of

fear and shame, of honour and interest, and the abuse of

freedom accelerated the progress of anarchy and despo­

tism.' The Romans had aspired to be equal; they were

levelled by the equality of servitude; and the dictates of

Augustus were patiently ratified by the formal consent

-of the tribes or centuries. Once, and once only, he ex­  
perienced a sincere and strenuous opposition. His sub­

jects had resigned all political liberty; they defended the

freedom of domestic life. A law which enforced the

obligation, and strengthened the bonds of marriage, was

clamorously rejected; Propertius, in the arms of Delia,

applauded the victory of licentious love; and the project

of reform Was suspended till a new and more tractable ge­

neration had arisen in the world.8 Such an example was

not necessary to instruct a prudent usurper, of the mis­

chief of popular assemblies; and their abolition, which

Augustus had silently prepared, was accomplished with­

out resistance, and almost Without notice, on the acces­

sion of his successor.h Sixty thousand plebeian legisla­

tors, whom numbers made formidable, and poverty se­

cure, were supplanted by six hundred senators, who held

their honours, their fortunes, and their lives, by the cle-

iheC«natef mency oftne emperor. The loss of executive power was

alleviated by the gift of legislative authority; and Ul

plan might assert, after the practice of two hundred

'Cicero (de Legibus, 3.16—18.) dehates this constitutional question, anil as­

signs to his brother Qirintus the most unpopular side.

s Prm tutnultu recusantlum perferre non potui. (Suctbn. in August, c. 34.) See

Propertius, lib % eleg. 6. Heinecciifs, in a separate history, has exhausted,
the

whole subject of the Julian and Papian-Poppaean laws. (Opp. tout. 7. P. 1. p.
1—

479.)

j> Tacit. Antml. 1. 15. Lipsius, Excursus E. in Tacitum. <•

