DF.CLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

march of Heraclius, till he beheld with a sigh the once

loved mansions of Dastagerd. Both his friends and ene­

mies were persuaded, that it was the intention of Chosroes

tobury himself under the ruins of the city and palace: and

as both might have been equally adverse to his night, the

monarch of Asia, with Sira, and three concubines, escaped

through a hole in the wall nine days before the arrival

of the Romans. The slow and stately procession in

which he shewed himself to the prostrate crowd, was

changed to a rapid and secret journey; and the first

evening he lodged in the cottage of a peasant, whose

humble door would scarcely give admittance to the great

king." His superstition was subdued by fear: on the

third day, he entered with joy the fortifications of Ctesi-

phon; yet he still doubted of his safety till he had op­

posed the river Tigris to the pursuit of the Romans.

The discovery of his flight agitated with terror and tu­

mult the palace, the city, and the camp, of Dastagerd:

the satraps hesitated whether they had most to fear from

their sovereign or the enemy; and the females of the

haram were astonished and pleased by the sight of man­

kind, till the jealous husband of three thousand wives

again confined them to a more distant castle. At his

command, the'army of Dastagerd retreated to a new

camp: the front was covered by the Arba, and a line

of two hundred elephants; the troops of the more dis­

tant provinces successively arrived, and the vilest domes­

tics of the king and satraps were enrolled for the last de­

fence of the throne. It was still in the power of Chos­

roes to obtain a reasonable peace; and he was repeatedly

pressed by the messengers of Heraclius, to spare the

blood of his subjects, and to relieve a humane conqueror

from the painful duty of carrying fire and sword through

the fairest countries of Asia. But the pride of the Per­

sian had not yet sunk to the level of his fortune; he de­

rived a momentary confidence from the retreat of the

n The words of Theophanes are remarkable: Na-nXfli Xoff-po»]; «i; oixov
ytaifyev pn&a-

fuiw jueu'su, ou x^fi^K ev n rovrcu fluja, h iSxv ta^a-nv 'HfonXiuc iBa^acri,
(p. ^69.)

Young princes who discover a propensity tb war should repeatedly transcribe
and

translate such salutary tcits.

