CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

were actors, the Romans were merely spectators. The

Olympic stadium was open to wealth, merit, and ambi­

tion; and if the candidates could depend on their per­

sonal skill and activity, they might pursue the footsteps

of Diomede and Menelaus, and conduct their own horses

in the rapid career.3 Ten, twenty, forty chariots were

allowed to start at the same instant; a crown of leaves

was the reward of the victor: and his fame, with that of

his family and country, was chanted in lyric strains more

durable than monuments of brass and marble. But a se­

nator, or even acitizen, conscious of his dignity, would

have blushed to expose his person or his horses in the cir­

cus of Rome. The games were exhibited at the expense of

the republic, the magistrates, or the emperors: but the

reins were abandoned to servile hands; and if the profits

of a favourite charioteer sometimes exceeded those of

an advocate, they must be considered as the effects of

popular extravagance, and the high wages of a disgraceful

profession. The race, in its first institution, was a simple

contest of two chariots, whose drivers were distinguished

by white and red liveries; two additional colours, a light

green, and a cerulean blue, were afterward introduced;

and as the races were repeated twenty-five times, one

hundred chariots contributed in the same day to the

pomp of the circus. The four factions soon acquired a

legal establishment, and a mysterious origin, and their

fanciful colours were derived from the various appear­

ances of nature in the four seasons of the year; the red

dog-star of summer, the snows of winter, the deep shades

of autumn, and the cheerful verdure of the spring.' An­

other interpretation preferred the elements to the seasons,

• Read and feel the twenty-third book of the Iliad, a living picture of
manners,

passions, and the whole form and spirit of the chariot-race. West's
Dissertation on

the Olympic Games (sect. 12—17.) affords much curious ami authentic
information.

I The four colours, albati,russuti, jirasini, veneli, represent the four
seasons, accord­

ing to Cassiodorius, (Var. 3. 51.) who lavishes much wit and eloquence on this

theatrical mystery. Of these colours, the three first may be fairly
translated, white,

red, and green. Venetus is explained by cacruleut a word various and vague: it
is

properly the sky reflected in the sea; but custom and convenience may allow
blue as

au equivalent. (Robert. Slephau, sub voce. Spence's l'olywclis, p. 228.) «

