DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

tioned near the Po, under the conduct of Fulcaris, a

bold Herulian, who rashly conceived, that personal

bravery was the sole duty and merit of a commander.

As he marched without order or precaution along the

vEmilian way, an ambuscade of Franks suddenly arose

from the amphitheatre of Parma: his troops were sur­

prised and routed; but their leader refused to fly, de­

claring to the last moment that death was less terrible

than the angry countenance of Narses. The death of

Fulcaris, and the retreat of the surviving chiefs, decided

the fluctuating and rebellious temper of the Goths; they

flew to the standard of their deliverers, and admitted

them into the cities which still resisted the arms of the

Roman general. The conqueror of Italy opened a free

passage to the irresistible torrent of barbarians. They

passed under the walls of Cesena, and answered by threats

and reproaches the advice of Aligern, that the Gothic

treasures could no longer repay the labour of an inva­

sion. Two thousand Franks were destroyed by the skill

and valour of Narses himself, who sallied from Rimini

at the head of three hundred horse, to chastise the li­

centious rapine of their march. On the confines of

Samnium, the two brothers divided their forces. With

the right wing, Buccelin assumed the spoil of Campania,

Lucania, and Bruttium : with the left, Lothaire accepted

the plunder of Apulia and Calabria. They followed the

coast of the Mediterranean and the Hadriatic, as far as

Rhegium and Otranto, and the extreme lands of Italy

were the term of their destructive progress. The Franks,

who were Christians and Catholics, contented them­

selves with simple pillage and occasional murder. But

the churches, which their piety had spared, were stripped

by the sacrilegious hands of the Alemanni, who sacri­

ficed horses' heads to their native deities of the woods

and rivers :c they melted or profaned the consecrated

vessels, and the ruins of shrines and altars were stained

* Agathias notice! their superstition in a philosophic tone (lib. 1. p. 18.) At Zag,

