. .DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

he servilely copied the institutions, and even the abuses,

of the political system which had been framed by Con-

stantine and his successors. From a tender regard to

the expiring prejudices of Rome, the barbarian declined

the name, the purple, and the diadem, of the emperors;

but he assumed, under the hereditary title of king, the

whole substance and plenitude of imperial prerogative.*

His addresses to the eastern throne were respectful and

ambiguous; he celebrated in pompous style the harmony

of the two republics, applauded his own government as,

the perfect similitude of a sole and undivided empire, and

claimed above the kings of the earth the same pre-emi­

nence which he modestly allowed to the person or rank

of Anastasius. The alliance of the east and west was

annually declared by the unanimous choice of two con­

suls; but it should seem that the Italian candidate who

was named by Theodoric, accepted a formal confirmation

from the sovereign of Constantinople.11 The Gothic pa­

lace of Ravenna reflected the image of the court of Theo-

dosius or Valentinian. The prastorian prefect, the pre­

fect of Rome, the queestor, the master of the offices,

with the public and patrimonial treasurers, whose func­

tions are painted in gaudy colours by the rhetoric of Cas-

siodorius, still continued to act as the ministers of state.

And the subordinate care of justice and the revenue was

delegated to seven consulars, three correctors, and five

presidents, who governed the fifteen regions of Italy,

according to the principles and even the forms of Roman

jurisprudence.1 The violence of the conquerors was

The image of Theodoric is engrayed on hi$ coins: his' modest successors were

s&tisfied with adding their own name to the head of the reigning emperor.
(Muratori

Antiquitat. Italiae Medii M\\, tom. 2. dissert. 27. p. 577—579.) Giannone
Istoria

Civile di Napoli, tom. 1. p. 166.)

h The alliance of the emperor and the king of Italy are represented by
Cassiodo-

rias (Var. 1. 1. 2. 2. 3. 6. 1.) and Procopius (Goth. 1. 2. c. 6. lib. 3. c.
21.) who

celebrate the friendship of Anastasius and Theodoric: hat the figurative style
of

compliment was interpreted in a very different sense at Constantinople and
Ravenna.

1 To the seventeen provinces of the Notitia, Paul Warnefrid the deacon (De
Reb.

Longohard.lib. 2. c. 14—22.) has subjoined an eighteenth, the Appennine.
(Muratori

Script. Rerum Italicarum, tom. 1. p. 431—433.) But of these Sardiniaand
Corsica

were possessed by the Vandals, and the two Rbnetias, as well as the Cottian
Alps,

seem in have been ahandoned to a military goverument. The state of the four
pro­

