DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

of the Ostrogoths; and the three brothers, Walamir,

Theodemir, and Widimir, who ruled that warlike na­

tion with united counsels, had separately pitched their

habitations in the fertile though desolate province of

Pannonia. The Huns still threatened their revolted

subjects, but their hasty attack was repelled by the sin­

gle forces of Walamir, and the news of his victory reach­

ed the distant camp of his brother in the same auspicious

moment that the favourite concubine of Theodemir was

delivered of a son and heir. In the eighth year of his

age, Theodoric was reluctantly yielded by his father to

the public interest, as the pledge of an alliance which

Leo, emperor of the east, had consented to purchase by

an annual subsidy of three hundred pounds of gold. The

royal hostage was educated at Constantinople with care'

and tenderness. His body was formed to all the exer­

cises of war, his mind was expanded by the habits of li­

beral conversation; he frequented the schools of the

most skilful masters; but he disdained or neglected the

arts of Greece, and so ignorant did he always remain of

the first elements of science, that a rude mark was con­

trived to represent the signature of the illiterate king of

Italy.0 As soon as he attained the age of eighteen, he

was restored to the wishes of the Ostrogoths, whom the

emperor ■ aspired to gain by liberality and confidence.

Walamir had fallen in battle; the youngest of the bro­

thers, Widimir, had led away into Italy and Gaul an army

of barbarians, and the whole nation acknowledged for

their king the father of Theodoric. His ferocious sub­

jects admired the strength and stature of their young

prince ;d and he soon convinced them that he had not

degenerated from the valour of his ancestors. At the

c The four - first letters of his name (OEftA) were inscribed on a gold plate,
and

when it was fixed on the paper, the king drew his pen through the intervals.
(Ano­

nym. Valesian. ad Calcein Ainin. Marcellin. p. 722.) This authentic fact, with
the

testimony of Procopius, or at least of the contemporary Coths, Gothic, lib. 1.
o. 2.

p. 311.) far outweighs the vague praises of Ennodius (Sirmodd Opera, torn. 1.
p.

1596.) and Theophaues. (Chronograph, p. 112.)

d Statura est qua? resignet procerifale regimnlem. (Ennodius, p. 1614.) The

bishop of Pavia (I mean the ecclesiastic who wished to be a bishop) then
proceeds

to celebrate the complexion, eyes, hands, &c. of his sovereign.

