25a DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

Negotu. In peace, the king of Persia continually sought the

taSto* pretences of a rupture; but no sooner had he taken

between up arms, than he expressed his desire of a safe and ho-

Jnstinian 1 , i-* » if i • 1

and cho«- nourable treaty. During the fiercest hostilities, the two

ITd. 540 monarchs entertained a deceitful negotiation; and such

—541. was tne superiority of Chosroes, that whilst he treated

the Roman ministers with insolence and contempt, he

obtained the most unprecedented honours for his own

ambassadors at the imperial court. The successor of

Cyrus assumed the majesty of the eastern sun, and gra­

ciously permitted his younger brother Justinian to reign

over the west, with the pale and reflected splendour of

the moon. This gigantic style was supported by the

pomp and eloquence of Isdigune, one of the royal cham­

berlains. His wife and daughters, with a train of eu­

nuchs and camels, attended the march of the ambassa­

dor: two satraps with golden diadems were numbered

among his followers: he was guarded by five hundred

horse, the most valiant of the Persians; and the Roman

governor of Dara wisely refused to admit more than

twenty of this martial and hostile caravan. When Isdi­

gune had saluted the emperor, and delivered his presents,

he passed ten months at Constantinople without discuss­

ing any serious affairs. Instead of being confined to his

palace, and receiving food and water from the hands of

his keepers, the Persian ambassador, without spies or

guards, was allowed to visit the capital; and the free­

dom of conversation and trade enjoyed by his domestics

offended the prejudices of an age, which rigorously prac­

tised the law of nations, without confidence or courtesy."

By an unexampled indulgence, his interpreter, a servant

below the notice of a Roman magistrate, was seated, at

Tishes eighteen or twenty pages of false and florid rhetoric. His ignorance or
care­

lessness overlooks the strongest argument against the king of Lazica—his
former

revolt.

"Procopias represents the practice of the Gothic court of Ravenna; (Goth. lib.

1. c. 7.) and foreign amhassadors have been treated with the same jealousy and
ri­

gour in Turkey, (Busbequius, epist. 3. p. 149. 843, &c.) Russia (Voyage
d'Olea-

rius), and China. (Narrative of M. de Lange, in Bell's Travels, vol. 2. p. 189

—311.)

