210 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

of retaliation. In the siege of Topirus," whose obstinate

defence had enraged the Sclavonians, they massacred

fifteen thousand males; but they spared the women and

children; the most valuable captives were always re­

served for labour or ransom; the servitude was not ri­

gorous, and the terms of their deliverance were speedy

and moderate. But the subject, or the historian of Jus­

tinian, exhaled his just indignation in the language of

complaint and reproach; and Procopius has confidently

affirmed, that in a reign of thirty-two years, each annual

inroad of the barbarians consumed two hundred thousand

of the inhabitants of the Roman empire. The entire

population of Turkish Europe, which nearly corresponds

with the provinces of Justinian, would perhaps be inca­

pable of supplying six millions of persons, the result of

this incredible estimate.1

monn'rciwof *n tne ™idst of these obscure calamities, Europe felt

«heTurks in the shock of a revolution, which first revealed to the

a. d. si.?, world the name and nation of the Tukks. Like Ro­

mulus, the founder of that martial people was suckled

by a she-wolf, who afterward made him the father of a

-numerous progeny; and the representation of that ani­  
mal in the banners of the Turks preserved the memory,

or rather suggested the idea, of a fable, which was in­

vented, without any mutual intercourse, by the shepherds

of Latium and those of Scythia. At the equal distance

of two thousand miles from the Caspian, the Icy, the

Chinese, and the Bengal seas, a ridge of mountains is

conspicuous, the centre, and perhaps the summit, of

Asia; which, in the language of different nations, has

been styled Imaus, and Caf,z and Altai, and the Golden

* Topiins was situate near Philippi in Thrace, or Macedonia, opposite to tbe  
isle of Thasos, twelve clays journey from Constantinople. (Cellarius, torn. 1.
p.

676. 840.)

> According to tile malevolent testimony of the Anecdotes, (c. 18.) these in­

roads had reduced tbe provinces, south of the Dannbe, to the state of a
Scythian

wilderness. • •

*■ From Caf to Caf; which a more rational geography would interpret from Imaus,  
perhaps in mount Atlas. According to the religious philosophy of the
Mahometans,

the basis of mount Cat' is an emerald, whoso reflection produces the azure of
the sky.

