•CttAP. XL.] THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of Tiberius, by the gravest of the Romans; and Pliny,

in affected though forcible language, has condemned the

thirst of gain, which explored the last confines of the

earth, for the pernicious purpose of exposing to the pub­

lic eye naked draperies and transparent matrons/ A

dress, which shewed the turn of the limbs, and colour of

the skin, might gratify vanity, or provoke desire; the

silks, which had been closely woven in China, were some­

times unravelled by the Phoenician women, and'the preci­

ous materials were multiplied by a looser texture, and the

intermixture of linen threads.5 Two hundred years after

the age of Pliny, the use of pure or even of mixed silks

was confined to the female sex, till the opulent citizens

of Rome and the provinces were insensibly familiarized

with the example of Elagabalus, the first who, by this

effeminate habit, had sullied the dignity of an emperor

and a man. Aurelian complained, that a pound of silk

was sold at Rome for twelve ounces of gold; but the sup­

ply increased with the demand, and the price diminished

with the supply. If accident or monopoly sometimes

raised the value even above the standard of Aurelian,

the manufacturers of Tyre and Berytus were sometimes

compelled, by the operation of the same causes, to content

themselves with a ninth part of that extravagant rate.'

A law was thought necessary to discriminate the dress of

comedians from that of senators; and of the silk export­

ed from its native country, the far greater part was con.-

sumed by the subjects of Justinian. They were still

more intimately acquainted with a shell-fish of the Me­

diterranean, surnamed the silk-worm of the sea; the

r Tam longinquo orhe petitur, at in publico matron* translnceat nt de-

nndet foeminas vestis. (Plin. 6. 20. 11. 21.) Varro and Publius Syrus had
already

played on the Toga ventres, ventus texilis, and nebula linea. (Horat. Sermon.
1, 2.

101. with the noles of Torrentius and Dacier.)

1 On the texture, colours, names, and use of the silk, half silk, and linen
garment!

of antiquity, see the profound, diffuse, and obscure researches of the great
Salmasius,

(in Hist. August. p. 127. 309. 310. 339. 341,342. 344. 388—391. 39p. 513.) who

was ignorant of the most common trades of Dijon or Leyden.

1 Flavins Vupiscus in Aurelian. c. 45. in Hist. August. p. 224. See Salmasius

ad Hist. Aug. p. 392. and Plinian' Exercitat. in Solinum, p. 694, 695.
TheAneo-

dotes of Procopius (c. 25.) state a partial and imperfect rate of the price of
silk in

the time of Justinian.

