40 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

among the guards of the emperor Leo. Under the two

succeeding reigns, the fortunate peasant emerged to

wealth and honours; arid his escape from some dangers

which threatened his life, was afterward ascribed to the

guardian angel who watches over the fate of kings. His

long and laudable service in the Isaurian and Persian

wars, would not have preserved from oblivion the name

of Justin; yet they might warrant the military pro­

motion, which hi the course of fifty years he gradually

obtained; the rank of tribune, of count, and of general,

the dignity of senator, and the command of the guards,

who obeyed him as their chief, at the important crisis

when the emperor Anastasius was removed from the

world. The powerful kinsmen, whom he had raised and

enriched, were excluded from the throne; and the eu­

nuch Amantius, who reigned in the palace, had secretly

resolved to fix the diadem on the head of the most ob­

sequious of his creatures. A liberal donative, to conci­

liate the suffrage of the guards, was intrusted for that

purpose in the hands of their commander. But these

weighty arguments were treacherously employed by Jus-

Eieration tin in his own favour; and as no competitor presumed

"fwYuDcieto aPPear> the Dacian peasant was invested with the

a^d" m8 P^rP^e' Dy tne unanimous consent of the soldiers, who

joiy 10. 'knew him to be brave and gentle; of the clergy and

April i, or people, who believed him to be orthodox, and of the

Aug. l. provincials, who yielded a blind and implicit submission

to the will of the capital. The elder Justin, as he is

distinguished from another emperor of the same family

and name, ascended the Byzantine throne at the age of

sixty-eight years; and, had he been left to his own guid­

ance, every moment of a nine years' reign must have

exposed to his subjects the impropriety of their choice.

His ignorance was similar to that of Theodoric; and, it

is remarkable, that in an age not destitute of learning,

two contemporary monarchs had never been instructed

in the knowledge of the alphabet. But the genius of

