CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

successors, and the laws of the Lombards have been es­

teemed the least imperfect of the barbaric codes.h Se­

cure by their courage in the possession of liberty, these

rude and hasty legislators were incapable of balancing the

powers of the constitution, or of discussing the nice the­

ory of political government. Such crimes as threatened

the life of the sovereign, or the safety of the state, were

ajudged worthy of death; but their attention was prin­

cipally confined to thedefence of the person and proper­

ty of the subject. According to the strange jurispru­

dence of the times, the guilt of blood might be redeemed

by a fine; yet the high price of nine hundred pieces of

gold declares a just sense of the value of a simple citizen.

Less atrocious injuries, a wound, a fracture, a blow, an

opprobrious word, were measured with scrupulous and

almost ridiculous diligence; and the prudence of the le­

gislator encouraged the ignoble practice of bartering

honour and revenge for a pecuniary compensation. The

ignorance of the Lombards, in the state of Paganism or

Christianity, gave implicit credit to the malice and mis­

chief of witchcraft; but the judges of the seventeenth

century might have been instructed and confounded by

the wisdom of Rotharis, who derides the absurd super­

stition, and protects the wretched victims, of popular or

judicial cruelty.1 The same spirit of a legislator, superior

to his age and country, may be ascribed to Luitprand, who

condemns, while he tolerates, the impious and inveterate

abuse of duels,11 observing from his own experience, that

the juster cause had often been oppressed by successful

violence. Whatever merit may be discovered in the

"Montesquieu, Esprit des Loix, lib. 28. c. 1. Les loix des Bourguignons sont

assez. judicieuses; celles de Rotharis et des autres princes Lomhards le font
encore

plus.

'See Leges Rotharis, no. 379. p. 47. Strigais used as the name of a witch. It

is of ihe purest classic origin; (Horat. epod. 5. 20. Petron. c. 134.) and,
from the

words of Petronius, (quae striges comederunt nervostuos ?) it may be inferred
that the

prejudioe was of Italian rather than harhario extraction.

k Quia incerte flumns de judicio Dei, et multos audivimus per pugnam sine
jnsta

causa suam causam perdere. Sed propter consuetudinem gen tem nostrum Langohar-

dorum legem inipiam vetare non possumus. See p. 74. no. 65. of the Laws of
Luit­

prand, promulgated A. D. 724.

2 F 2

