68 DECLINE AND FALL f_CHAP. XLv

fine wool or hair by which the mother-of-pearl affixes

itself to the rock, is now manufactured for curiosity ra­

ther than use; and a robe obtained from the same sin­

gular materials, was the gift of the Roman emperor to

the satraps of Armenia."

importation A valuable merchandize of small bulk is capable of

from China - . . 1

by land and defraying the expense or land carnage; and the caravans

traversed the whole latitude of Asia in two hundred and

forty-three days from the Chinese ocean to the sea-

coast of Syria. Silk was immediately delivered to the

Romans by the Persian merchants," who frequented the

fairs of Armenia and Nisibis: but this trade, which in

the intervals of truce was oppressed by avarice and jea­

lousy, was totally interrupted by the long wars of the

rival monarchies. The great king might proudly num­

ber Sogdiana, and even Serica, among the provinces of

his empire; but his real dominion was bounded by the

Oxus, and his useful intercourse with the Sogdoites,

beyond the river, depended on the pleasure of their con­

querors, the white Huns, and the Turks, who succes­

sively reigned over that industrious people. Yet the

most savage dominion has not extirpated the seeds of

agriculture and commerce, in a region which is cele­

brated as one of the four gardens of Asia; the cities of

Samarcand and Bochara are advantageously seated for

the exchange of its various productions; and their mer­

chants purchased from the Chinese3 the raw or rnanu-

« Procopius de Edif. lib. 3. o. 1. These pin;tes de mer are fonnd near Smyrna,

Sicily, Corsica, and Minorca; and a pair of gloves of their silk was presented
to pope

Benedict XIV.

* Procopius Persic. lib. 1. o. 20. lib. 2. c. 25. Gothic. lib. iv. c. 17 . Menander  
in Excerpt. Legat. p. 107. Of the Parthian or Persian empire, Isidore of
Charax

(in Stathmis Parthicis, p. 7, 8. in Hudson, Geograpb. Minor, tom. 2.) has
marked

the roads, and Amniianus Marcellinas (lib. 23. c. 6. p. 400.) has enumerated
the

provinces.

y The blind admiration of the Jesuits confounds the different periods of the
Chi­

nese history, They are more critically distinguished by M. de Guignes, (Hist.
des

Hons, tom. 1. part 1. in the Tables, part 2. in the Geograpby; Memoires de
I'Acade-

mie des Inscriptions, tom. 32. 56. 42, 43.) who discovers the gradual progress
of

the truth of the annals, and the extent of the monarcby, till the Chiistian
era. He had

searched, with a curious eye, the connexions of the Chinese with the nations
of the

west: but these conuoxions are slight, casual, and obscure; nor did the Romans

entertain a suspicion that the Seres or Sina■ possessed an empire not inferior
to their omii

