CHAP. XL.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the corrupt appellation of Giustendil still indicates, about

twenty miles to the south of Sophia, the residence of a

Turkish sanjak.* For the use of the emperor's country­

men, a cathedral, a palace, and an aqueduct, were speedi­

ly constructed; the public and private edifices were

adapted to the greatness of a royal city; arid the strength

of the walls resisted, during the lifetime of Justinian, the

unskilful assaults of the Huns and Sclavonians. Their

progress was sometimes retarded, and their hopes of ra­

pine were disappointed, by the innumerable castles,

which, in the provinces of Dacia, Epirus, Thessaly, Ma­

cedonia, and Thrace, appeared to cover the whole face of

the country. Six hundred of these forts were built or

repaired by the emperor: but it seems reasonable to be­

lieve, that the far greater part consisted only of a stone

or brick tower, in the midst of a square or circular area,

which was surrounded by a wall and ditch, and afforded

in a moment of danger some protection to the peasants

and cattle of the neighbouring villages.1 Yet these mi-r

litary works, which exhausted the public treasure, could

not remove the just apprehensions of Justinian and his

European subjects. The warm baths of Anchialus in

Thrace were rendered as safe as they were salutary; but

the rich pastures of Thessalonica were foraged by the

Scythian cavalry; the delicious vale of Tempe, three

hundred miles from the Danube, was continually alarm­

ed by the sound of war ;a and no unfortified spot, how­

ever distant or solitary, could securely enjoy the blessings

of peace. The straits of Thermopylae, which seemed

to protect, but which had so often betrayed, the safety

J See d'Anville; (Memoires de l'Auademie, &c. lorn. 31. p. 289, 290.) Rycaut

(Present State of the Turkish empire, p. 97. 316.) Ivlarsigli. (Stato Mililare
del Iro-

perio Ottomano, p. 130.) The sanjak of Giostendil is one of the twenty nnder
the

beglerheg of Romulia, and his district maintains forty-eight zaims and five
hundred

and eighty-three timariots.

* These fortifications may be compared to the castles in Mingrelia (Chardin, Voy­  
ages en Perse, torn. 1. p. 60. 131.)—a natural picture.

» The valley of Tempe is situate along the river Peneus, between the hills of
Ossa

and Olympas: it is only five miles long, and in some places no more than one
hundred

end twenty feel in breadth. lis verdant beauties are elegantly described by
Pliny^

(Hist. Natur. lib. i. IS.)'and more diffusely by ..Elian. (Hist.Var. lih-3. c.
1.)

