326 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

Conscience and reason as the sacred measure of his

conduct. 2. A similar dependance was implied in the

decrees of the senate, which, in every reign, defined

the titles and powers of an elective magistrate. But it

was not before the ideas, and even the language, of

the Romans had been corrupted, that a royal law,i

and an irrevocable gift of the people, were created by

the fancy of Ulpian, or more probably of Tribonian

himself :r and the origin of imperial power, though

false in fact, and slavish in its consequence, was sup­

ported on a principle of freedom and justice. "The

kg'"-pleasure of the emperor has the vigour and effect of

power. law, since the Roman people, by the royal law, have

transferred to their prince the full extent of their own

power and sovereignty."5 The will of a single man,

of a child perhaps, was allowed to prevail over the wis­

dom of ages and the inclinations of millions; and the

degenerate Greeks were proud to declare, that in his

hands alone the arbitrary exercise of legislation could be

safely deposited. '" What interest or passion (exclaims

Theophilus in the court of Justinian) can reach the calm

and sublime elevation of the monarch? he is already

master of the lives and fortunes of his subjects; and

those who have incurred his displeasure, are already

numbered with the dead."' Disdaining the language of

flattery, the historian may confess, that in questions of

private jurisprudence, the absolute sovereign of a great

ranee of Dion Cassias, (tom. 1. lib. 53. p. 713.) On this occasion, his
editor, Rei-

mar, joins the universal censure which freedom and criticism hare pronounced
against »

that slavish historian.

i The word (lex regia) was still more recent than the thing. The slaves of

Commodus or Caracalla would have started at the name of royalty.

r See Gravina, (Opp. p.-501—512.) and Beaufort, (Republique Romaine, tom. 1.

p. 255—274.) He has made a proper use of two dissertations by Johu Frederick

Gronovius and Noodt, both translated with valuable notes, by Barbeyrac, 2
vols, in

12mo. 1731.

_ ' Institut. lib. 1. tit. 2. no. 6. Pandect, lib. 1. tit. 4. leg. 1. Cod.
Justinian. lib. 1.

tit . 17. leg. 1. no. 7. In his antiquities and elements, Heineccius has amply
treated

de constitntionibus principum, which are illustrated by Godefroy, (Comment ad
Cod.

Theodos. lib. 1. tit. 1—3.) and Gravina. (p. 87—90.)

'Theophilus, in Paraphras. Graec. Institut. p. 33, 34. edit. Reitl. For his
per­

son, time, writings, see the Theophilus of J. H. Mylius, Excnrs. 3. p. 1034—r

