CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 437

and to direct the operations, of the provincial troops.

But the martial spirit of the pope was checked by the

scruples of humanity and religion ; the imposition of tri­

bute, though it was employed in the Italian war, he free­

ly condemned as odious and oppressive; whilst he pro­

tected against the imperial edicts, the pious cowardice of

the soldiers who deserted a military for a monastic life.

If we may credit his own declarations, it would have been

easy for Gregory to exterminate the Lombards by their

domestic factions, without leaving a king, a duke, or a

count, to save that unfortunate nation from the ven­

geance of their foes. As a Christian bishop, he prefer­

red the salutary offices of peace; his mediations ap­

peased the tumult of arms; but he was too conscious of

the arts of the Greeks, and the passions of the Lombards,

to engage his sacred promise for the observance of the

truce. Disappointed in the hope of a general and last­

ing treaty, he presumed to save his country without the

consent of the emperor or the exarch. The sword of

the enemy was suspended over Rome; it was averted by

the mild eloquence and seasonable gifts of the pontiff

who commanded the respect of heretics and barbarians.

The merits of Gregory were treated by the Byzantine The Sa-

court with reproach and insult; but in the attachment Rome,

of a grateful people, he found the purest reward of a ci­

tizen, and the best right of a sovereign/

CHAP. XLVI.

Revolutions of Persia after the death of Chosroes or Nnshirvan.—His son,
Hormonz,

t a tyrant, is deposed.—Usurpation of Baharam.—Flight and Restoration of Chos­

roes II.—His gratitude to the Romans The cbagan of the Avars.—Revolt of

'the army against Maurice.—His death—Tyranny of Phocas.—Klevation of Hera­

clius.-—The Persian war Chosroes subdues Syria, Egypt, and Asia Minor.—

Siege of Constantinople by the Persians and Avars.—Persian expeditions.—Victo­

ries and triumph of Heraclius.

The conflict of Rome and Persia was prolonged from Contest of

i a Rome and

the death of Crassus to the reign of Heraclius. An ex- Persia.

'The temporal reign of Gregory I. is ably exposed by Sigonias in the first
book,

de Regno Italiae. See his works, tom. 2. p. 41—75.

