DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXXI.

obstinate bigots, who refused their contributions, were

whipped through the streets by the hand of the execu­

tioner. This simple act of justice exasperated the dis­

content of the Catholics, who applauded the merit and

patience of these holy confessors; three hundred pulpits

deplored the persecution of the church; and if the chapel

of St. Stephen at Verona was demolished by the com­

mand of Theodoric, it is probable that some miracle hos­

tile to his name and dignity had been performed on that

sacred theatre. At the close of a glorious life, the king

of Italy discovered that he had excited the hatred of a

people whose happiness he had so assiduously laboured

to promote; and his mind was soured by indignation,

jealousy, and the bitterness of unrequited love. The

Gothic conqueror condescended to disarm the unwarlike

natives of Italy, interdicting all weapons of offence, and

excepting only a small knife for domestic use. The de­

liverer of Rome was accused of conspiring with the vilest

informers against the lives of senators whom he suspected

of a secret and treasonable correspondence with the By­

zantine court.5 After the death of Anastasius, the dia­

dem had been placed on the head of a feeble old man;

but the powers of government were assumed by his ne­

phew Justinian, who already meditated the extirpation of

heresy, and the conquest of Italy and Africa. A rigor­

ous law, which was published at Constantinople, to reduce

the Arians by the dread of punishment within the pale

of the church, awakened the just resentment of Theo­

doric, who claimed, for his distressed brethren of the east,

the same indulgence which he had so long granted to

the Catholics of his dominions. At his stern command,

the Roman pontiff, with four illustrious senators, em­

barked on an embassy, of which he must have alike

dreaded the failure or the success. The singular vene­

ration shewn to the first pope who had visited Constan-

« Rex avidus communis exitii, &c. (BoeUiius. lib. 1. p. 59.) rex dolam Komanis

tendebat. (Auonym. Vales, p. 723.) These are hard words: they speak the
passions

of the Italians, and those (1 fear) of Theodoric himself.

