CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 283

in frequent embassies; he led an army into Italy, ac­

quired a practical knowledge of the war, and the country;

and presumed to strive with the genius of Belisarius.

Twelve years after his return, the eunuch was chosen to

achieve the conquest which had been left imperfect by

the first of the Roman generals. Instead of being daz­

zled by vanity or emulation, he seriously declared, that

unless he were armed with an adequate force, he would

never consent to risk his own glory, and that of his sove­

reign. Justinian granted to the favourite, what he might

have denied to the hero: the Gothic war was rekindled

from its ashes, and the preparations were not unworthy

of the ancient majesty of the empire. The key of the

public treasure was put into his hand, to collect maga­

zines, to levy soldiers, to purchase arms and horses, to

discharge the arrears of pay, and to tempt the fidelity of

the fugitives and deserters. The troops of Germanus

were still in arms; they halted at Salona in the expec­

tation of a new leader; and legions of subjects and al­

lies were created by the well-known liberality of the eu­

nuch Narses. The king of the Lombards11 satisfied or

surpassed the obligations of a treaty, by lending two

thousand two hundred of his bravest warriors, who were

followed by three thousand of their martial attendants.

Three thousand Heruli fought on horseback under Phi-

lemuth, their native chief; and the noble Aratus, who

adopted the manners and discipline of Rome, conducted

a band of veterans of the same nation. Dagistheus was

released from prison to command the Huns; and Ko-

bad," the grandson and nephew of the great king, was

conspicuous by the regal tiara at the head of his faithful

Persians, who had devoted themselves to the fortunes

of their prince.' Absolute in the exercise of his autho-

the foolish prophecy of the Romans subsisted in fall vigour. (Procop. lib. 4.
c. 21.)

h Paul Warnefrid, the Lombard, records with complacency the succour, service,

and honourable dismission of his countrymen—reipnblicrc Romans adrersus
semulos

adjutores faerant. (lib. 2. c. 1. p. 774. edit. Grot.) I am surprised that
Alboin, their

martial king, did not lead his subjects in person.

'He was, if not an impostor, the son of the blind Zames, saved by compassion,

U 2

