DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

of Greece, were diligently strengthened by the labours of

Justinian. From the edge of the sea-shore, through

the forest and valleys, and as far as the summit of the

Thessalian mountains, a strong wall was continued,

which occupied every practicable entrance. Instead of

a hasty crowd of peasants, a garrison of two thousand

soldiers was stationed along the rampart; granaries of

com, and reservoirs of water, were provided for their

use; and by a precaution that inspired the cowardice

which it foresaw, convenient fortresses were erected for

their retreat. The walls of Corinth, overthrown by an

earthquake, and the mouldering bulwarks of Athens

and Plataea, were carefully restored; the barbarians were

discouraged by the prospect of successive and painful

sieges; and the naked cities of Peloponnesus were co­

vered by the fortifications of the isthmus of Corinth. At

the extremity of Europe, another peninsula, the Thra-

cian Chersonesus, runs three days' journey into the sea,

to form, with the adjacent shores of Asia, the straits of

the Hellespont. The intervals between eleven populous

towns were filled by lofty woods, fair pastures, and arar

ble lands: and the isthmus, or thirty-seven stadia or fur­

longs, had been fortified by a Spartan general nine hun­

dred years before the reign of Justinian.b In an age of

freedom and valour, the slightest rampart may prevent

a surprise; and Procopius appears insensible of the su­

periority of ancient times, while he praises the solid con­

struction and double parapet of a wall, whose long arms

stretched on either side into the sea: but whose strength

was deemed insufficient to guard the Chersonesus, if

each city, and particularly Galipoli and Sestus, had not

been secured by their peculiar fortifications. The long

wall, as it was emphatically styled, was a work as dis­

graceful in the object, as it was respectable in the execu­

tion. The riches of a capital diffuse themselves over

b Xenophon Hellenic. lib. 3. c. 2. After a long and tedious conversation with

the Byzantine declaimers, how refreshing is the truth, the simplicity, the
elegance of

an Attic writer!

