392 DECLINE AND VALL [CHAP. XLIV.

seized by the inhumafi claims of the treasury.^ Yet the

civilians have always respected the natural right of a ci­

tizen to dispose of his life ; and the posthumous disgrace

invented by Tarquin2 to check the despair of his subjects,

was never revived or imitated by succeeding tyrants.

The powers of this world have indeed lost their domi­

nion over him who is resolved on death; and his arm

can only be restrained by the religious apprehension of a

future state. Suicides are enumerated by Virgil among

the unfortunate, rather than the guilty ;a and the poeti­

cal fables of the infernal shades could not seriously in­

fluence the faith or practice of mankind. But the pre­

cepts of the gospel, or the church, have at length impos­

ed a pious servitude on the minds of Christians, and con­

demn them to expect, without a murmur, the last stroke

of disease or the executioner. ;... .

Abuses of The penal statutes form a very small proportion of the

prudence, sixty-two books of the code and pandects ; and, in all ju­

dicial proceeding, the life or death of a citizen is deter­

mined with less caution and delay than the most ordinary

question of covenant or inheritance. This singular dis­

tinction, though something may be allowed for the ur­

gent necessity of defending the peace of society, is de­

rived from the nature of criminal and civil jurisprudence.

Our duties to the state are simple and uniform; the law

by which he is condemned, is inscribed not only on brass

or marble, but on the conscience of the offender, and

his guilt is commonly proved by the testimony of a single

fact. But our relations to each other are various and

infinite: our obligations are created, annulled, and mo-

y Julias Paulas, (Sentent. Recept. lib. 5. tit. 12. p. 476.) the Pandects,
(lib. 48.

tit. 21.) the Code, (lib. 9. tit. 1.") Bynkershoek, (tom. 1. p. 59. Observat.
J. C. R. 4.

4.) and Montesquieu, (Esprit des Loix, tib. 29. c. 9.) define the civil
limitations of th«

liberty and privileges of suicide. The criminal penalties are the production
of a later

and darker age. •' ■ '.J

* Plin. Hist. Natur. 36. 24. When he fatigued his subjects in building the Capi­  
tol, many of the labourers were provoked to dispatch themselves; he nailed
their

dead bodies to crosses. , . . ''.'.''

* The sole resemblance of a violent and premature death has engaged Virgil (iEneid,  
6.434—439.) to confound suicides with infants, lovers, and persons unjustly
con­

demned. Heyne, the best of his editors, is at a loss to deduce the idea, or
ascertain

the jurisprudence, of the Roman poet.

