466 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

closed by the execution of the emperor himself, in the

twentieth year of his reign, and the sixty-third year of

his age. The bodies of the father and his five sons

were cast into the sea, their heads were exposed at Con­

stantinople to the insults or pity of the multitude, and

it was not till some signs of putrefaction had appeared,

that Phocas connived at the private burial of these vene­

rable remains. In that grave, the faults and errors of

Maurice were kindly interred. His fate alone "was re­

membered; and at the end of twenty years, in the re­

cital of the history of Theophylact, the mournful tale

was interrupted by the tears of the audience."

Phocas Such tears must have flowed in secret; and such com-

a. d. 602, passion would have been criminal, under the reign of

a.°d. 6uo, Phocas, who was peaceably acknowledged in the pro-

october 4. yinces of the east and west. The images of the emperor

and his wife Leontia were exposed in the Lateran to the

veneration of the clergy and senate of Rome, and after­

ward deposited in the palace of the Caesars, between

. those of Constaritine and Theodosius. As a subject and

a Christian, it was the duty of Gregory to acquiesce in

the established government, but the joyful applause with

which he salutes the fortune of the assassin, has sullied

with indelible disgrace the character of the saint. The

successor of the apostles might have inculcated with de­

cent firmness the guilt of blood, and the necessity of re­

pentance: he is content to celebrate the deliverance of

the people and the fall of the oppressor; to rejoice that

the piety and benignity of Phocas have been raised by

Providence to the imperial throne; to pray that his

hands may be strengthened against all his enemies; and

to express a wish, perhaps a prophecy, that after a long

and triumphant reign, he may be transferred from a

temporal to an everlasting kingdom .b I have already

» The revolt of Phocas and death of Maurice are told by Theopbvlact Simoca1ta,

(lib. 8. c. 7—18.) the Paschal Chronicle, (p. 379, 380.1 Thecipl■anes,
(Chrono­

graph, p. 238—244.) Zonaras, (tom. 2. lib. 14. p. 77—80.) and Cedrenua. (p.
399

—404.V

* Gregor. lib. 11. epist. 38. indict. 6. Benignitatem, vestroe pietatisad imperiale

