DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

the slaves of Britain, or the gems and gold of Asiatic-

kingdoms. In the language of ancient jurisprudence,

which was corrupted and forgotten before the age of Jus­

tinian, these spoils were distinguished by the name of

rnanceps or mancipium, taken with the hand; and when­

ever they were sold or emancipated, the purchaser requir­

ed some assurance that they had been the property of an

enemy, and not of a fellow-citizen." A citizen could

only forfeit his rights by apparent dereliction, and such

dereliction of a valuable interest could not easily be pre­

sumed. Yet, according to the twelve tables, a prescrip­

tion of one year for moveables, and of two years for im­

moveables, abolished the claim of the ancient mas­

ter, if the actual possessor had acquired them by a fair

transaction from the person whom he believed to be the

lawful proprietor.b Such conscientious injustice, with­

out any mixture of fraud or force, could seldom injure

the members of a small republic: but the various pe­

riods of three, often, or of twenty years, determined by

Justinian, are more suitable to the latitude of a great

empire. It is only in the term of prescription that the

distinction of real and personal fortune has been remark­

ed by the civilians, and their general idea of property is

that of simple, uniform, and absolute dominion. The

subordinate exceptions of me, of usufruct,* of servitudes?

imposed for the benefit of a neighbour on lands and

houses, are abundantly explained by the professors of ju-

• The res mancipe is explained from faint and remote ltghts by Ulpian
(Fragment.

tit. 18. p. 618, 619.) and Bynkershock. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 306—315.) The
definition

is somewhat arhitrary; and as none except myself hare assigned a reason, I am
dif­

fident of my own.

b From this short prescription, Hame (Essays, vol. 1. p. 423.) infers that
there

could not then be more order and settlement in Italy than now amongst the
Tartars.

By the civilian of his adversary Wallace, he is reproached, and not without
reason,

for overlooking the conditions. (Institnt. lib. 2. tit. 6.)

« See the Institutes, (lib. 1. tit. 4, 5.) and the Pandects, (lib. 7.) Noodt
has

composed a learned and distinct treatise de Usufructo. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 387—

478.) .

* The questions de Servitutibus are discussed in the Institutes, (lib. 2. tit. 3.) and  
Pandects, (lib. 8.) Cicero, (pro Murena, c. 9. and Lactantius, (Institut.
Divin.

lib. 1. c. 1.) affect to laugh at the insignificant doctrine, de aquapluvia
arcenda, &c.

Yet it might be of frequent use among litigious neighbours, both in town and

country.

