CHAP. XLIH.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 309

cated to the whole surface of the globe, or at least of the

Roman empire. An impulse or vibratory motion was

felt; enormous chasms were opened, huge and heavy

bodies were discharged into the air, the sea alternately ad­

vanced and retreated beyond its ordinary bounds, and a

mountain was torn from Libanus/ and cast into the

waves, where it protected, as a mole, the new harbour of

Botrysq in Phoenicia. The stroke that agitates an ant­

hill, may crush the insect myriads in the dust; yet truth

must extort a confession, that man has industriously

laboured for his own destruction. The institution of

great cities, which include a nation within the limits of

a wall, almost realizes the wish of Caligula, that the Ro­

man people had but one neck. Two hundred and fifty a. d. 526,

. . May 20.

thousand persons are said to have perished in the earth­

quake of Antioch, whose domestic multitudes were

swelled by the conflux of strangers to the festival of the

Ascension. The loss of Berytus' was of smaller account, a. d. 551.

but of much greater value. That city, on the coast ofJttIy 9-

Phoenicia, was illustrated by the study of the civil law,

which opened the surest road to wealth and dignity : the

schools of Berytus were filled with the rising spirits of

the age, and many a youth was lost in the earthquake,

who might have lived to be the scourge of the guardian

of his country. In these disasters, the architect be­

comes the enemy of mankind. The hut of a savage,

or the tent of an Arab, may be thrown down without

injury to the inhabitant; and the Peruvians had reason

to deride the folly of their Spanish conquerors, who

with so much cost and labour erected their own sepul-

P An abrupt height, a perpendicular cape between Aradns and Botrys, named by

the Greeks Sim wpffmr* and luvpe-tovn or Xifarpwvffor, by the scrupulous
Christians,

(Polyb. lib. 5. p. 411. Pompon. Mela, lib. 1. c. 12. p. 87.) cum Isaac Voss.
Obser-

vat. Maandrell. Journey, p. 32, 33. Pocock's Description, vol. 2. p. 99.)

1 But,ys was founded (ann. ante Christ. 935—903.) by Itliobal, king of Tyre.

(Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 387, 388.) Its poor representative, the village of
Pa-

trone, is now destitute of a harbour.

'r The university, splendour, and ruin of Berytus, are celebrated by
Heineooius,

(p. 351—356.) as an essential part of the history of the Roman law. It was
over­

thrown in the twenty-fifth year of Justinian, A. D. 551, Jnly 9 ; (Theophanes,
p. 192.)

but Agathias (lib. 2. p. 51, 52.) suspends the earthquake till he has
achieved, tlio

Italian war. .

