202 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

the kingdoms of the Goths and Vandals, the emperor,*

timid, though ambitious, balanced the forces of the bar­

barians, fomented their divisions by flattery and false-^

hood, and invited by his patience and liberality the repe­

tition of injuries.' The keys of Carthage, Rome, and

Ravenna, were presented to their conqueror, while An-

tioch was destroyed by the Persians, and Justinian trem­

bled for the safety of Constantinople.

bubiHuM* Even the Gothic victories of Belisarius were prejudi­

cial to the state, since they abolished the important bar­

rier of the Upper Danube, which had been so faithfully

guarded by Theodoric and his daughter. For the defence

of Italy, the Goths evacuated Pannonia and Noricum,

which they left in a peaceful and flourishing condition:

the sovereignty was claimed by the emperor of the Rod­

mans: the actual possession was abandoned to the bold­

ness of the first invader. On the opposite banks of the

Danube, the plains of Upper Hungary and the Transyl-

vanian hills were possessed, since the death of Attila, by

TheGepidie the tribes of the Gepidae, who respected the Gothic

arms, and despised, not indeed the gold of the Romans,

but the secret motive of their annual subsidies. The

vacant fortifications of the river were instantly occupied

by these barbarians: their standards were planted on the

walls of Sirmium and Belgrade; and the ironical tone of

their apology aggravated this insult on the majesty of the

empire. "So extensive, O Cassar, are your dominions;

so numerous are your cities; that you are continually

seeking for nations to whom, either in peace or war,

you may relinquish these useless possessions. The Ge-

pidas are your brave and faithful allies; and if they have

anticipated your gifts, they have shewn a just confidence

in your bounty." Their presumption was excused by

* Agathias, lib. S. p. 157,158. He confines this weakness of the emperor andthe  
empire to the old age of Justinian; bat, alas! be was never young.

'This mischievous policy, which Procopius (Anecdot. c. 19.) imputes to the em­

peror, is revealed in his epistle to a Scj thian prince, who was capable of
understand­

ing it. kym irftfxiBiiiKtu ayppvcwTaTov;, says Agathias, (lib. 5. p. 170,
171.)

