328 DECLINE AND TALL [CHAP. XLIV,

rian, the Hermogenian, and the Theodosian codes. The

two first, of which some fragments have escaped, were

framed by two private lawyers, to preserve the constitu­

tions of the Pagan emperors from Hadrian to Constan-

tine. The third, which is still extant, was digested in

sixteen books by the order of the younger Theodosius,

to consecrate the laws of the Christian princes from Con-

stantine to his own reign. But the three codes obtained

an equal authority in the tribunals; and any act which

was not included in the sacred deposit, might be disre­

garded by the judge as spurious or obsolete."

Pori«sof Among savage nations, the want of letters is imper­

ial fectly supplied by the use of visible signs, which awaken

attention, and perpetuate the remembrance of any public

or private transaction. The jurisprudence of the first

Romans exhibited the scenes of a pantomime; the words

were adapted to the gestures, and the slightest error or

neglect in the forms of proceeding was sufficient to annul

the substance of the fairest claim. The communion of

the marriage-life was denoted by the necessary elements

of fire and water :° and the divorced wife resigned the

bunch of keys, by the delivery of which she had beert in­

vested with the government of the family. The manu­

mission of a son, or a slave, was performed by turning

him round with a gentle blow on the cheek: a work was

prohibited by the casting of a stone; prescription was in­

terrupted by the breaking of a branch; the clenched

. fist was the symbol of a pledge or deposit; the right

hand was the gift of faith and confidence. The inden­

ture of covenants was a broken straw; weights and

scales were introduced into every payment, and the heir

who accepted a testament, was sometimes obliged to

b Schnlting, Jurisprndentia Ante-Jnstinianea, p. 681—718. Cujacins assigned t6

Gregory the reigns from Hadrian to Gatlienus, and the continuation to his
fellow-1

labourer Hermogenes. This general division may be just; hat they often
trespassed

on each other's ground.

c Soaevola, most prohably Q. Corvidius Scanvola the master of Papinian,
considers

this acceptance of fire and water ns the essence of marriage. (Pandect, lib.
24. tit. 1.

leg. 66. See Heineccius, Hist. J. B. no. 317.)

