CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 14Q

The Moorish war continued several years after the de­

parture of Belisarius; but the laurels which he resigned to

a faithful lieutenant, may be justly ascribed to his own

triumph.

The experience of past faults, which may sometimes

correct the mature age of an individual, is seldom pro- Neutrality

fitable to the successive generations of mankind. The goths.

nations of antiquity, careless of each other's safety, were

separately vanquished and enslaved by the Romans.

This awful lesson might have instructed the barbarians

of the west to oppose, with timely counsels and confede­

rate arms, the unbounded ambition of Justinian. Yet

the same error was repeated, the same consequences

were felt, and the Goths, both of Italy and Spain, insen­

sible of their approaching danger, beheld with indiffer­

ence, and even with joy, the rapid downfal of the Van­

dals. After the failure of the royal line, Theudes, a va­

liant and powerful chief, ascended the throne of Spain,

which he had formerly administered in the name of

Theodoric, and his infant grandson. Under his com­

mand, the Visigoths besieged the fortress of Ceuta on

the African coast: but, while they spent the sabbath-

day in peace and devotion, the pious security of their

camp was invaded by a sally from the town; and the

king himself, with some difficulty and danger, escaped

from the hands of a sacrilegious enemy.1 It was not

long before his pride and resentment were gratified by a

suppliant embassy from the unfortunate Gelimer, who

implored, in his distress, the aid of the Spanish monarch.

But, instead of sacrificing these unworthy passions to the

dictates of generosity and prudence, Theudes amused

the ambassadors, till he was secretly informed of the loss

of Carthage, and then dismissed them with obscure and

contemptuous advice, to seek in their native country a

* Isidor. Cbron. p. 722. edit. Grot. Mariana, Hist. Hispan. lib. 5. c. 8. p. 173.  
Yet according to Isidore, the siege of Ceuta, and the death of Theudes,
happened,

A. M. H. 586. A< D. 548. and the place was defended, not by the Vandals, bnt
by the

Romans.

