CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 101

their royal captive after he had submitted to adore the

majesty of a barbarian; and the humiliation was poorly

evaded by the casuistical subtilty of the Magi, who in­

structed Perozes to direct his attention to the rising sun.

The indignant successor of Cyrus forgot his danger and

his gratitude; he renewed the attack with headstrong

fury, and lost both his army and his life." The death of

Perozes abandoned Persia to her foreign and domestic

enemies; and twelve years of confusion elapsed before

his son Cabades or Kobad could embrace any designs of

ambition or revenge. The unkind parsimony of Anas-

tasius was the motive or pretence of a Roman warthe The Per-

Huns and Arabs marched under the Persian standard, a.d. 502

and the fortifications of Armenia and Mesopotamia were, —50;>-

at that time, in a ruinous or imperfect condition. The

emperor returned his thanks to the governor and people

of Martyropolis, for the prompt surrender of a city which

could not be successfully defended, and the conflagra­

tion of Theodosiopolis might justify the conduct of their

prudent neighbours. Amida sustained a long and des­

tructive siege: at the end of three months the loss of

fifty thousand of the soldiers of Cabades was not balanced

by any prospect of success, and it was in vain that the

Magi deduced a flattering prediction from the indecency

of the women on the ramparts, who had revealed their

most secret charms to the eyes of the assailants. At

length, in a silent night, they ascended the most acces­

sible tower, which was guarded only by some monks,

oppressed after the duties of a festival, with sleep and

wine. Scaling ladders were applied at the dawn of day;

the presence of Cabades, his stern command, and his

11 See the fate of Phirouz or Perozes. and its consequence!:, in Procopius,
(Persic.

lib. 1. e. 3—6.) who may be compared with the fragments of oriental history.
(d'Her-

belot, Bibliot. Orient. p. 351. and Texeira, History of Persia, translated or
abridged

hy Stevens, lib. t. 0.32. p. 132—138.) The chronology is ably ascertained by
As-

aeman. (Bibliot. Orient. tom. 3. p. 396—427.)

.1 x The Persian war, under the reigns of Anastasius and Justin, may be
collected

from Procopius, (Persic. lib. I■e. 7—9.) Theophanes, (in Chronograph, p. 124—

127.) Evagrius, (lib. 3. c. 37.) Marcellinas, (in Chron. p. 47.) anJ Josue
Styhtes

(apod Asseman. tom. i. p. 272—281.) .....'

