GHAP. Xi.IV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 330.

In a bigoted and persecuting court, the principal minis­

ter was accused of a secret aversion to the Christian faith,

and was supposed to entertain the sentiments of an athe­

ist and a Pagan, which have been imputed, inconsistently

enough, to the last philosophers of Greece. His avarice

was more clearly proved and more sensibly felt. If he

were swayed by gifts in the administration of justice, the

example of Bacon will again occur; nor can the merit

of Tribonian atone for his baseness, if he degraded the

sanctity of his profession ;.and if laws were every day

enacted, modified, or repealed, for the base considera­

tion of his private emolument. In the sedition of Con­

stantinople, his removal was granted to the clamours,

perhaps to the just indignation, of the people; but the

quaestor was speedily restored, and till the hour of his

death, he possessed, above twenty years, the favour and

confidence of the emperor. His passive and dutiful sub­

mission has been honoured with the praise of Justinian

himself, whose vanity was incapable of discerning how

often that submission degenerated into the grossest adu­

lation. Tribonian adored the virtues of his gracious

master: the earth was unworthy of such a prince; and

he affected a pious fear, that Justinian, like Elijah or

Romulus, would be snatched into the air, and translated

alive to the mansions of celestial glory."

- If Caesar had achieved the reformation of the Roman The Code  
law, his creative genius, enlightened by reflection andean/'

study, would have given to the world a pure and original p^ig28,

system of jurisprudence. Whatever flattery might sug- *'I?1-y29'

gest, the emperor of the east was afraid to establish his

private judgment as the standard of equity: in the pos­

session of legislative power, he borrowed the aid of time

e This story is related by Hesychius (de'Viris lllustribus), Procopius,
(Anecdot.

c. 13.) and Suidas. (tom. 3. p. 501.) Such flattery is incredible!

Nihil est quod credere de se

Non poterit cum laudator Diis scqua potestas.

Fontenelle (tom. 1. p. 32—39.) has ridiculed the impudence of the modest
Virgil.

But the same Fontenelle places his king above the divine Augustus; and the
sage

ttoileau has not blushed to say,—" Le destin a ses yeux u'oseroit halancer."
Yet

neither Augustus nor Louis XIV". were fools.

