[CHAP. XLII. OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

less congenial than that of Europe, to military spirit:

those populous countries were enervated by luxury, des­

potism, and superstition; and the monks were more

expensive and more numerous than the soldiers of the

east. The regular forpe of the empire had once amounted

to six hundred and forty-five thousand men: it was re­

duced, in the time of Justinian, to one hundred and

fifty thousand; and this number, large as it may seem,

was thinly scattered over the sea and land; in Spain and

Italy, in Africa and Egypt, , on the banks of the Danube,

the coast of the Euxine, and the frontiers of Persia.

The citizen was exhausted, yet the soldier was unpaid;

his poverty was mischievously soothed by the privilege

of rapine and indolence; and the tardy payments were

detained and intercepted by the fraud of those agents

who usurp, without courage or danger, the emoluments

of war. Public and private distress recruited the armies

of the state; but in the field, and still more in the pre­

sence of the enemy, their numbers were always defective.

The want of national spirit was supplied by the preca­

rious faith and disorderly service of barbarian mercen­

aries. Even military honour, which has often survived

the loss of virtue and freedom, was almost totally extinct.

The generals, who were multiplied beyond the, example

of former times, laboured only to prevent the success,, or

to sully the reputation, of their colleagues; and they

had been taught by experience, that if merit sometimes

provoked the jealousy, error, or even guilt, would ob­

tain the indulgence, of a gracious emperor.d In such

an age the triumphs of Belisarius, and afterward of

Narses, shine with incomparable lustre; but they are

encompassed with the darkest shades of disgrace and

calamity. While the lieutenant of Justinian subdued

yaorat \somiurai;. This Inst epithet of Procopius is too nobly translated by
pirates;

naval thieves is the proper words: strippers of garments, eitlierfor injury or
insult.

(Demosthenes contra Conon. in Reiske Orator. Grace, torn. 2. p. 1264.) *

d See the third and fourth boots of the Gothic War: the writer of the
Anecdotes

caunot aggravate these abuses.' ''.

VOL. V. P

