CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 100.

sons of Epicurus so strangely scandalized the pious ears

of the Athenians, that by his exile, and that of his anta­

gonists, they silenced all vain disputes concerning the

nature of the gods. But, in the ensuing year, they

recalled the hasty decree, restored the liberty of the

schools, and were convinced, by the experience of ages,

that the moral character of philosophers is not affected

by the diversity of their theological speculations.™

The Gothic arms were less fatal to the schools ofT1,ey«re

Athens than the establishment of a new religion, whose by justi-

ministers superseded the exercise of reason, resolved maD'

every question by an article of faith, and condemned the

infidel or sceptic to eternal flames. In many a volume

of laborious controversy, they exposed the weakness of

the understanding and the corruption of the heart, in- . ■

suited human nature in the sages of antiquity, and pro­

scribed the spirit of philosophical inquiry, so repugnant ■

to the doctrine, or at least to the temper, of an humble

believer. The surviving sect of the Platonists, whom

Plato would have blushed to acknowledge, extravagantly

mingled a sublime theory with the practice of supersti­

tion and magic; and, as they remained alone in the midst

of a Christian world, they indulged a secret rancour

against the government of the church and state; whose

severity was still suspended over their heads. About a

century after the reign of Julian," Proclus0 was permitted Proclus.

to teach in the philosophic chair of the academy; and

such was his industry that he frequently, in the same day,

m The birth of Epicurus is fixed to the year 342 before Christ, (Bayle),
Olympi­

ad 109. 3. and he opened his school at Athens, Olymp. 118. 3. three hundred
and six

years before the same era. This intolerant law (Athenosus, lib. 13. p. 610.
Diogen.

Laertins, lib. 5. s. 38. p. 290. Julias Pollux, 9. 5.) was enacted in the
same, or the

succeeding year. (Sigonins, Opp. torn. 5. p. 62.Menagius, ad Diogen. Laert. p.
204.

Corsini Fasti Attici, torn. ir. p. 67,68.) Theoplirastns, chief of the
Peripatetics, and

disciple of Aristotle, was involved in the same exile.

u This is no fanciful era; the Pagans reckoned their calamities from the reign
of

tbeir hero. Proclus, whose nativity is marked by his horoscope, (A. D. 412,
Febru­

ary 8, at C. P. died one hundred and twenty-four years tcm IotAfarov
0ae-i\toett A. D.

485. (Marin, in Vita Procli, c. 36.) . .

0 The life of Proclus, by Marinus, was published by Fabricius. (Hamburgh,
1700.

ct ad calcem Bibliot. Latin. Lond. 1703.) See Snidas (torn. 3. p. 185, 186.);
Fa-

bricius(Bibliot. Grttc lib. 5. c. 26. p. 449—552.), and Brucker. (Hist. Crit.
Pliilo-

»oph. torn. 2. p. 319—326.) •• ."/

