CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1Q3

fame and merit, in wealth and power, he remained, with­

out a rival, the first of the Roman subjects: the voice of

envy could only magnify his dangerous importance; and

the emperor might applaud his own discerning spirit

which had discovered and raised the genius of Belisarius.

It was the custom of the Roman triumphs, that a slave SecretMs-

should be placed behind the chariot to remind the COn~ wife Anto-

queror of the instability of fortune, and the infirmities ofmn*'

human nature. Procopius, in his Anecdotes, has as­

sumed that servile and ungrateful office. The generous

reader may cast away the libel, but the evidence of facts

will adhere to his memory; and he will reluctantly con­

fess, that the fame, and even the virtue, of Belisarius,

were polluted by the lust and cruelty of his wife; and

that the hero deserved an appellation which may not

drop from the pen of the decent historian. The mother

of Antonina" was a theatrical prostitute, and both her

father and grandfather exercised at Thessalonica and

Constantinople the vile, though lucrative, profession of

charioteers. In the various situations of their fortune,

she became the companion, the enemy, the servant, and

the favourite of the empress Theodora; these loose and

ambitious females had been connected by similar plea­

sures; they were separated by the jealousy of vice, and

at length reconciled by the partnership of guilt. Before

her marriage with Belisarius, Antonina had one husband

and many lovers; Photius, the son of her former nup­

tials, was of an age to distinguish himself at the siege of

Naples; and it was not till the autumn of her age and

beauty* that she indulged a scandalous attachment to a

Thracian youth. Theodosius had been educated in the Her lover

Eunomian heresy; the African voyage was consecrated by J^"io'

n The diligence of Alemannus could add hat little to the four first and most
curi­

ous chapters of Anecdotes. Of these straoge Anecdotes, a part may be true,
because

prohable—and a part true, because improhable. Procopius must have known the

former, and the latter he could scarcely invent.

* Procopius insinuates (Anecdot. o. 4.) that, when Belisarius returned fo Italy,  
(A. D. 543.) Antonina was sixty years of age. A forced, but more polite
construc­

tion, which refers thai date to the moment when he was writing, (A. D. 559.)

wonld be compatible with the manhood of Photius. (Gothic. lib. 1. c. 10.) in
536.

