CHAP. XLII.] Qf THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of Gubazes sustained the most rigorous trials. He pa­

tiently endured the hardships of a savage life, and rejected

with disdain, the specious temptations of,;the Persian

court. The king of the Lazi had been educated in the

Christian religion; his mother was the daughter of a se­

nator; during his youth, he had served ten years a silen-

tiary of the Byzantine palace,5 and the arrears of an un­

paid salary were a motive of attachment as well as of

complaint. But the. long continuance of his sufferings

extorted from him a naked representation of the truth;

and truth was an unpardonable libel on the lieutenants

of Justinian, who, amidst the delays of a ruinous war,

had spared his enemies, and trampled on his allies.

Their malicious information persuaded the emperor, that

his faithless vassal already meditated a second defection:

an order was issued to send him prisoner to Constanti­

nople; a treacherous clause was inserted, that he might

be lawfully killed in case of resistance; and Gubazes,

without arms, or suspicion of danger, was stabbed in the

security of a friendly interview. In the first moments

of rage and despair, the Colchians would have sacrificed

their country and religion to the gratification of revenge.

But the authority and eloquence of the wiser few, ob­

tained a salutary pause: the victory of the Phasis re­

stored the terror of the Roman arms, and the emperor

was solicitous to absolve his own name from the imputa­

tion of so foul a murder. A judge of senatorial rank

was commissioned to inquire into the conduct and death

of the king of the Lazi. He ascended a stately tribunal,

encompassed by the ministers of justice and punishment:

in the presence of both nations, this extraordinary cause

was pleaded, according to the forms of civil jurisprudence,

and some satisfaction was granted to an injured people,

by the sentence and execution of the meaner criminals.'

. ' In the palace of Constantinople there were thirty silentiaries, who are
styled

hastati ante fores cuhiculi, *ris ftyns ima-rami, an honourable title, which
conferred

the rank, without imposing the duties, of a senator. (Cod. Theodos. lib. 6.
tit. 23.

Gothofred. Comment. tom. 2. p. 129.)

'On'these judicial orations, Agathias (lib. 3. p. 81—89. lib. 4. p. 108—119.)
la-

VOL. V. S

