DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

"I have seen a vision (cried an artful or fanatic bishop

of the east). It is the will of Heaven, O emperor! that

you should not abandon your holy enterprise for the

deliverance of the African church. The God of battles

will march before your standard, and disperse your ene­

mies, who are the enemies of his Son." The emperor

might be tempted, and his counsellors were constrained,

to give credit to this seasonable revelation: but they de­

rived more rational hope from the revolt, which the ad­

herents of Hilderic or Athanasius had already excited on

the borders of the Vandal monarchy. Pudentius, an

African subject, had privately signified his loyal inten­

tions, and a small military aid restored the province of

Tripoli to the obedience of the Romans. The govern­

ment of Sardinia had been intrusted to Godas, a valiant

barbarian; he suspended the payment of tribute, dis­

claimed his allegiance to the usurper, and gave audience

to the emissaries of Justinian, who found him master of

that fruitful island, at the head of his guards, and proud­

ly invested with the ensigns of royalty. The forces of

the Vandals were diminished by discord and suspicion;

the Roman armies were animated by the spirit of Beli-

sarius; one of those heroic names which are familiar to

every age and to every nation.

The Africanus of new Rome was born, and perhaps

educated, among the Thracian peasants,' without any of

those advantages which had formed the virtues of the

elder and the younger Scipio; a noble origin, liberal

studies, and the emulation of a free state. The silence of

a loquacious secretary may be admitted, to prove that

the youth of Belisarius could not afford any subject of

praise: he served, most assuredly, with valour and repu­

tation, among the private guards of Justinian; and

when his patron became emperor, the domestic was pro-

e 'ilftiAijro &t a tyhia-a^tx: fx nffiuUH*;, % ©gaxwrs Ha.t IXXi/ptw fAsra^u
xiirai. (Procop.

Vandal, lib. 1.e. 11.) Aleman, (Not. ad Anecdot. p. 5.) an Italian, conld
easily re­

ject the German vanity of Giphanias and Velserus, who wished to claim the
hero;

but his Gerniania, a metropolis of Thrace, I cannot find in any civil or
ecclesiastical

list of the provinces and cities.

