CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

highways to annoy the feet of the horses; and as new

gates could not suddenly be procured, the entrance was

guarded by a Spartan rampart of his bravest soldiers.

At the expiration of twenty-five days, Totila returned by

hasty marches from Apulia, to avenge the injury and dis­

grace. Belisarius expected his approach. The Goths

were thrice repulsed in three general assaults; they lost

the flower of their troops; the royal standard had almost

fallen into the hands of the enemy, and the fame of To­

tila sunk, as it had risen, with the fortune of his arms.

Whatever skill and courage could achieve, had been per­

formed by the Roman general; it remained only, that

Justinian should terminate, by a strong and seasonable

effort, the war which he had ambitiously undertaken.

The indolence, perhaps the impotence, of a prince who

despised his enemies, and envied his servants, protracted

the calamities of Italy. After a long silence, Belisarius

was commanded to leave a sufficient garrison at Rome,

and to transport himself into the province of Lucania,

whose inhabitants, inflamed by Catholic zeal, had cast

away the yoke of their Arian conquerors. In this igno­

ble warfare, the hero, invincible against the power of the

Barbarians, was basely vanquished by the delay, the dis­

obedience, and the cowardice of his own officers. He

reposed in his winter-quarters of Crotona, in the full as­

surance, that the two passes of the Lucanian hills were

guarded by his cavalry. They were betrayed by treach­

ery or weakness; and the rapid march of the Goths

scarcely allowed time for the escape of Belisarius to the

coast of Sicily. At length a fleet and army were assem­

bled for the relief of Ruscianum, or Rossano," a fortress

sixty furlongs from the ruins of Sybaris, where the nobles

of Lucania had taken refuge. In the first attempt, the

a herb with a prickly fruit common in Italy. (Martin, ad Virgil. Georgic. 1.
153.

vol. 2. p. 33.)

8 Rascia, the navale Thuriarum, was transferred to the distance of sixty
stadia to

Ruscianam, Rossano, an archbishopric without suffragans. The republic of
Sybaris

is now the estate of the duke of Corigliano. (Riedesel, Trarels into Magna
Grrecia

and Sicily, p. 166—171.)

