CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAM EMPIRE. 32£

, From Augustus to Trajan, the modern Cassars werd [j™5tj1,fI,"he

content to promulgate their edicts in the various charac- emperors,

ters of a Roman magistrate: and, in the decrees of thef

senate, the epistles and orations of the prince were respect­

fully inserted. Hadrian" appears to have been the first

who assumed, without disguise, the plenitude of legisla­

tive power. And this innovation, so agreeable to his

active mind, was countenanced by the patience of the

times, and his long absence from the seat of government.

The same policy was embraced by succeeding monarchs,

and, according to the harsh metaphor of Tertullian,

"the gloomy and intricate forest of ancient laws was

cleared away by the axe of royal mandates and consti­

tutions"" During four centuries, from Hadrian to Jus­

tinian, the public and private jurisprudence was moulded

by the will of the sovereign; and few institutions, either

human or divine, were permitted to stand on their for­

mer basis. The origin of imperial legislation was con­

cealed by the darkness of ages and the terrors of armed

despotism; and a double fiction was propagated by. the

servility, or perhaps the ignorance, of the civilians who

basked in the sunshine of the Roman and Byzantine

courts. 1. To the prayer of the ancient Cassars, the

people or the senate had sometimes granted a personal

exemption from the obligation and penalty of particular

statutes; and each indulgence was an act of jurisdiction

exercised by the republic over the first of her citizens.

His humble privilege was at length transformed into the

prerogative of a tyrant; and the Latin expression of

"released from the laws,"p was supposed to exalt the

emperor above all human restraints, and to leave his

by the master-hand of Heineccius, (Opp. tom. 7. P. 2. p. 1—564.) in whoso re­

searches I might safely acquiesce. In the Academy of Inscriptions, M. Boachaud

has given a series of memoirs to this interesting snbject of law and
literature.

• n [lis laws are the first in the Code. See Dodwell, (Praelect. Camden, p'.
319—■

340.) who wanders from the subject in confused reading and feeble paradox.

- ° Totam illam veterem et squalleutem sylvam legum novis principalium rescrip--  
torum et edictorum securibus ruscatis ct carditis. (Apologet. c. 4. p. 50.
edit. Haver-

camp.) He proceeds to praise the recent firmness of Severns, who repealed the
use­

less or pernicious laws, without any regard to their age or authority.

P The constitutional style of Legibus Suiutus is misinterpreted by the art or
igno-

