14 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

freeman were exempt from taxes, and he enjoyed the in­

estimable privilege of being subject only to the laws of

his country/ Fashion, and even convenience, soon per­

suaded the conquerors to assume the more elegant dress

of the natives, but they still persisted in the use of their

mother-tongue; and their contempt for the Latin schools

was applauded by Theodoric himself, who gratified their

prejudices, or his own, by declaring, that the child who

had trembled at a rod, would never dare to look upon a

sword.8 Distress might sometimes provoke the indigent

Roman to assume the ferocious manners, which were in­

sensibly relinquished by the rich and luxurious barba­

rian :h but these mutual conversions were not encouraged

Separation by the policy of a monarch who perpetuated the separa­

tor's6 and ^on o^ the Italians and Goths ; reserving the former for

Italians, the arts Gf peace, and the latter for the service of war.

To accomplish this design, he studied to protect his in­

dustrious subjects, and to moderate the violence without

enervating the valour of his soldiers, who were maintained

for the public defence. They held their lands and bene­

fices as a military stipend; at the sound of the trumpet

they were prepared to march under the conduct of their

provincial officers; and the whole extent of Italy was

distributed into the several quarters of a well-regulated

camp. The service of the palace and of the frontiers

was performed by choice or by rotation ; and each extra­

ordinary fatigue was recompensed by an increase of pay

and occasional donatives. Theodoric had convinced his

brave companions, that empire must be acquired and de­

fended by the same arts. After his example, they strove

to excel in the use, not only of the lance and sword, the

followers. (Frocop. Vandal, lib. 1. c. 8.) The Gothic nohility must have been
as noble

as biave.

fSee the acknowledgment of Gothio liberty, Var. 5. 30.

• Procopius, GoLh. lib. 1. c. 2. The Roman boys learnt the language (Var. 8.

31.) of the Goths. Their general ignorance is not destroyed by the exceptions
of

Amalasuntha, a female, who might study without shame, or of Theodatus, whose

learning provoked the indignation and contempt of his countrymen.

h A saying of Theodoric was founded on experience.—" Romauus miser imitator

Gothum ; et utilis (dives) Gothus imitatur Ronianum." (See the Fragment and
Notes

of Valesius, p. 719.)

