DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

exchanges were regulated; the Persian assumed the

guard of the gates of Caucasus, and the demolition of

Dara was suspended, on condition that it should never

be made the residence of the general of the east. This

interval of repose had been solicited, and was diligently

improved, by the ambition of the emperor: his African

conquests were the first-fruits of the Persian treaty; and

the avarice of Chosroes was soothed by a large portion of

the spoils of Carthage, which his ambassadors required

in a tone of pleasantry, and under the colour of friend­

ship.™ But the trophies of Belisarius disturbed the

slumbers of the great king; and he heard with astonish­

ment, envy, and fear, that Sicily, Italy, and Rome itself,

had been reduced, in three rapid campaigns, to the obe­

dience of Justinian. Unpractised in the art of violating

treaties, he secretly excited his bold and subtle vassal

Almondar. That prince of the Saracens, who resided at

Hira," had not been included in the general peace, and

still waged an obscure war against his rival Arethas, the

chief of the tribe of Gassan,and confederate of the em­

pire. The subject of their dispute was an extensive

sheep-walk in the desert to the south of Palmyra. An

immemorial tribute for the license of pasture, appeared

to attest the rights of Almondar, while the Gassanite ap­

pealed to the Latin name of strata, a paved road, as an

unquestionable evidence of the sovereignty and labours

of the Romans." The two monarchs supported the cause

of their respective vassals; and the Persian Arab, with­

out expecting the event of a slow and doubtful arbitra­

tion, enriched his flying camp with the spoil and captives

of Syria. Instead of repelling the arms, Justinian at-

m Procopins, Persic. lib. I.e. 26.

11 Almondar, king of Hira. was deposed by Kohad, and restored by Nnshirran,

His mother, from her beaoty, was sarnamed Celestial Water, an appellation
whiob

became hereditary, and was extended for a more noble cause (liberality in
famiDe)

to the Arab princes of Syria. (Pocock, Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 69, 70.)

° Procopins, Persic. lib. 2. c. 1. We are iguorant of the origin and object

of this strata, a paved road of ten days' journey from Auranitis to Babylonia,

(see a Latin note in Delisle's Map Imp. Orient.) Wcsscling and d'Auvillo arc

silent.

