CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

this insult was a coarse allusion to the white bands which

enveloped their legs. "Add another resemblance, (re­

plied an audacious Lombard) you have felt how strongly

they kick. Visit the plain of Asfield, and seek for the

bones of thy brother: they are mingled with those of

the vilest animals." The Gepidas, a nation of warriors,

started from their seats, and the fearless Alboin, with his

forty companions, laid their hands on their swords. The

tumult was appeased by the venerable interposition of

Turisund. He saved his own honour and the life of his

guest; and, after the solemn rites of investiture, dismissed

the stranger in the bloody arms of his son—the gift of a

weeping parent. Alboin returned in triumph; and the

Lombards, who celebrated his matchless intrepidity, were

compelled to praise the virtues of an enemyIn this

extraordinary visit he had probably seen the daughter of

Cunimund, who soon after ascended the throne of the

Gepidas. Her name was Rosamond, an appellation ex­

pressive of female beauty, and which our own history or

romance has consecrated to amorous tales. The king of

the Lombards (the father of Alboin no longer lived) was

contracted to the grand-daughter of Clovis; but the re­

straints of faith and policy soon yielded to the hope of

possessing the fair Rosamond, and of insulting her family

and nation. The arts of persuasion were tried without

success: and the impatient lover, by force and stratagem,

obtained the object of his desires. War was the conse­

quence which he foresaw and solicited; but the Lom­

bards could not long withstand the furious assault of the

Gepidae, who were sustained by a Roman army. And as

the offer of marriage was rejected with contempt, Alboin

was compelled to relinquish his prey, and to partake of

the disgrace which he had inflicted on the house of Cu­

nimund.'

h Paul Warnefrid, the deacon of Friuli, de Gest. Langohard. lib. 1. c. 23, 24.

His pictures of national manners, though rudely sketched, are more lively and
faith­

ful than those of Bede, or Gregory of Tours.

1 The story is told by an impostor, (Theopbylact. Symocat. Ub. 6. c. 10.) but
he

had art enough to build his fictions on public and notorious facts.

