238 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

laziness, or concealed by the prudence, of the Mingre-

lians. The waters, impregnated with particles of gold,

are carefully strained through sheep-skins or fleeces; but

this expedient, the ground-work perhaps of a marvellous

fable, affords a faint image of the wealth extracted from

a virgin earth by the power and industry of ancient kings.

Their silver palaces and golden chambers surpass our be­

lief; but the fame of their riches is said to have excited

the enterprising avarice of the Argonauts/ Tradition has

affirmed, with some colour of reason, that Egypt planted

on the Phasis a learned and polite colony," which manu­

factured linen, built navies, and invented geographical

maps. The ingenuity of the moderns has peopled, with

flourishing cities and nations, the isthmus between the

Euxine and the Caspian ;a and a lively writer, observing

the resemblance of climate, and in his apprehension of

trade, has not hesitated to pronounce the Colchos the

Holland of antiquity.15

Manners of But the riches of Colchos shine only through the

'darkness of conjecture or tradition; and its genuine his­

tory presents a uniform scene of rudeness and poverty.

If one hundred and thirty languages were spoken in the

market of Dioscurias/ they were the imperfect idioms of

so many savage tribes or families, sequestered from each

other in the valleys of mount Caucasus; and their sepa­

ration, which diminished the importance, must have

multiplied the number, of their rustic capitals. In the

present state of Mingrelia, a village is an assemblage "of

I Pliny, Ui»t. Natur. lib. 33.15. The gold and silver mines of Colchos
attracted

the Argonauts. (Strab. lib. 1. p. 77.) The sagacious Chardin could find no
gold in

mines, rivers, or elsewhere. Yet a Mingrelian lost his hand and foot for
shewing

some specimens at Constantinople of native gold.

* Herodot. lib. 2. c. 104,105. p. 150,151. Diodor. Sicul. lib. 1. p. 38. edit. Wes-  
seling; Dionys. Perieget. 689. and Eastath. ad loc. Scholiast, ad Appollonium
Ar­

gonaut. lib. 4. 282—291.

» Montesquieu, Esprit des Loix, lib. 21. c. 6. L'lsthme ... convert de villes
et

nations qui ne font plus.

b Bougainville, Memoires de 1'Aoademis des Inscriptions, tom. 26. p. 33. on
the

African voyage of Hanno and the commerce of antiquity.

0 A Greek historian, Timosthenes, had affirmed, in eam ccc nationes
dissimilibus

Unguis descenders; and the modest Pliny is content to add, et postca a nostris
cxxx

interpretibus negotia ihi gesta j (6.5.) but the words nunc deserta cover a
multitude

of past fictions.

