DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

and opinion; and his laborious compilations are guarded

by the sages and legislators of past times. Instead of a

statue cast in a simple mould by the hand of an artist,

the works of Justinian represent a tesselated pavement of

antique and costly, but too often of incoherent, fragments.

In the first year of his reign, he directed the faithful Tri-

bonian, and nine learned associates, to revise the ordi­

nances of his predecessors, as they were contained, since

the time of Hadrian, in the Gregorian, Hermogenianj

and Theodosian codes; to purge the errors and contra­

dictions, to retrench whatever was obsolete or superflu­

ous, and to select the wise and salutary laws best adapted

to the practice of the tribunals and the use of his subjects.

The work was accomplished in fourteen months; and

the twelve books or tables, which the new decemvirs

produced, might be designed to imitate the labours of

their Roman predecessors. The new code of Justinian

was honoured with his name, and confirmed by his royal

signature: authentic transcripts were multiplied by the

pens of notaries and scribes; they were transmitted to

the magistrates of the European, the Asiatic, and after­

ward the African provinces: and the law of the empire

was proclaimed on solemn festivals at the doors of

churches. A more arduous operation was still behind:

to extract the spirit of jurisprudence from the decisions

and conjectures, the questions and disputes, of the Ro­

man civilians. Seventeen lawyers, with Tribonian at

their head, were appointed by the emperor to exercise an

absolute jurisdiction over the works of their predecessors.

If they had obeyed his commands in ten years, Justinian

would have been satisfied with their diligence; and the

rapid composition of the digest or pandects/ in three

years, will deserve praise or censure, according to the

f nav5sitrai (general receivers) was a common title of the Greek miscellanies.

(Plin. Praefat. ad Hist. Natur.) The digesta of Scaevola, Marcellinua, Celsns,
were

atready familiar to the civilians: but Justinian was in the wrong when be used
thai

two appellations as synonymous. Is the word Pandects Greek or Latin—masculine

or feminine? The diligent Branckman will not presume to decide these momcutom,

controversies. (Hist. Paudect. Floreptin. p. 300—30-1.)

