DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL..

women and eunuchs, whose interests and passions she in­

dulged at the expense of justice; the most illustrious

personages of the state were crowded into a dark and

sultry antichamber, and when at last, after tedious at­

tendance, they were admitted to kiss the feet of Theo­

dora, they experienced, as her humour might suggest,

the silent arrogance of an empress, or the capricious le­

vity of a comedian. Her rapacious avarice to accumu­

late an immense treasure, may be excused by the appre­

hension of her husband's death, which could leave no

alternative between ruin and the throne; and fear as

well as ambition might exasperate Theodora against two

generals, who, during a malady of the emperor, had rash­

ly declared that they were not disposed to acquiesce in

the choice of the capital. But the reproach of cruelty,

so repugnant even to her softer vices, has left an indelible

stain on the memory of Theodora. Her numerous

spies observed, and zealously reported, every action, or

word, or look, injurious to their royal mistress. Whom­

soever they accused were cast into her peculiar prisons,1'

inaccessible to the inquiries of justice; and it was ru­

moured, that the torture of the rack, or scourge, had

been inflicted in the presence of a female tyrant, insen­

sible to the voice of prayer or of pity.' Some of these

unhappy victims perished in deep unwholesome dun­

geons, while others were permitted, after the loss of their

limbs, their reason, or their fortune, to appear in the

world the living monuments of her vengeance, which

was commonly extended to the children of those whom

she had suspected or injured. The senator or bishop,

whose death or exile Theodora had pronounced, was de­

livered to a trusty messenger, and his diligence was quick­

ened by a menace from her own mouth. "If you fail

in the execution of my commands, I swear by him who

h Her prisons, a labyrinth, a Tartarus, (Anecdot. c. 4.) were under the
palace.

Darkness is propitious to cruelty, but il is likewise favourable to calumny
and fictioo.

1 A more jocular whipping was inflicted on Saturninus, for presuming to say
that

his wile, a favourite of the empress, had not been found aifno;. (Anecdot. c.
17.)

