436 .» DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

bursements was kept above three hundred years in the

Lateran, as the model of Christian economy. On the

four great festivals, he divided their quarterly allowance

«nd arms, to the clergy, to his domestics, to the monasteries, the

churches, the places of burial, the alms-houses, and the

hospitals of Rome, and the rest of the diocess. On the

first day of every month, he distributed to the poor,

according to the season, their stated portion of corn,

wine, cheese, vegetables, oil, fish, fresh provisions,

■ clothes, and money; and his treasures were continually

summoned to satisfy, in his name, the .extraordinary de­

mands of indigence and merit. The instant distress of

the sick and helpless, of strangers and pilgrims, was re­

lieved by the bounty of each day, and of every hour:

.nor would the pontiff indulge himself in a frugal repast,

till he had sent the dishes from his own table to some

objects deserving of his compassion. The misery of the

times had reduced the nobles and matrons of Rome to

accept, without a blush, the benevolence of the'church:

.three thousand virgins received their food and raiment

from the hand of their benefactor; and many bishops

of Italy escaped from the barbarians to the hospitable

threshold of the Vatican. Gregory might justly be styled

the father of his country; and such was the extreme sen­

sibility of his conscience, that, for the death of a beggar

who had perished in the streets, he interdicted himself

during several days from the exercise of sacerdotal func­

tions. II. The misfortunes of Rome involved the apo­

stolic pastor in the business of peace and war; .and it

might be doubtful to himself, whether piety or ambition

prompted him to supply the place of his absent sovereign.

Gregory awakened the emperor from a long slumber,

exposed the guilt or incapacity of the exarch and his in­

ferior ministers, complained that the veterans were with­

drawn from Rome for the defence of Spoleto, encourag­

ed the Italians to guard their cities and altars; and con­

descended, in the crisis of danger, to name the tribunes,

