CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 20,

terward by the restitution, of the estates which he had

unjustly extorted from his Tuscan neighbours. Two

hundred thousand barbarians, formidable even to their

master, were seated in the heart of Italy; they indig­

nantly supported the restraints of peace and discipline;

the disorders, of their march were always felt, and some­

times compensated; and where it was dangerous to pu­

nish, it might be prudent to dissemble, the sallies of their

native fierceness. When the indulgence of Theodoric

had remitted two-thirds of the Ligurian tribute, he con­

descended to explain the difficulties of his situation, and

to lament the heavy though inevitable burdens which he

imposed on his subjects for their own defence/1 These

ungrateful subjects could never be cordially reconciled

to the origin, the religion, or even the virtues of the

Gothic conqueror; past calamities were forgotten, and

the sense or suspicion of injuries was rendered still more

exquisite by the present felicity of the times.

Even the religious toleration, which Theodoric had the He'»«>ro-

vukcd to

glory of introducing into the Christian world, was painful persecute

and offensive to the orthodox zeal of the Italians. They n*,. *

respected the armed heresy of the Goths; but their pious

rage was safely pointed against the rich and defenceless

Jews, who had formed their establishments at Naples,

Rome, Ravenna, Milan, and Genoa, for the benefit of

trade, and under the sanction of the laws/ Their per­

sons were insulted, their effects were pillaged, and their

synagogues were burnt by the mad populace of Ravenna

and Rome, inflamed, as it should seem, by the most fri­

volous or extravagant pretences. The government which

could neglect, would have deserved, such an outrage. A

legal inquiry was instantly directed; and as the authors

of the tumult had escaped in the crowd, the whole com­

munity was condemned to repair the damage; and the

i immauiam expensarum pondus . . . pro ipsoram salute, &c. yet these are no

more than words.

r The Jews were settled at Naples, (Prncopiiis, Goth. lib. 1. c. 8.) at Genoa,
(Var.

2. 28! 4. 53.) Milai>, (5..3?.) Rome, (4. 43.) See likewise Basnagc, Hist, des
Jait's,

-ton. 8. c. 7. p. 2o4l''' . , , .'

