■' ■ DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

suiting mandate of the empress Sophia, " that he should

leave to men the exercise of arms, and return to his pro­

per station among the maidens of the palace, where a

distaff should be again placed in the hand of the eunuch."

"I will spin her such a thread, as she shall not easily

unravel!" is said to have been the reply which indigna­

tion and conscious virtue extorted from the hero. In­

stead of attending, a slave and a victim, at the gate of

the Byzantine palace, he retired to Naples, from whence

(if any credit is due to the belief of the times) Narses in­

vited the Lombards to chastise the ingratitude of the

prince and people.p But the passions of the people are

furious and changeable ; and the Romans soon recollect­

ed the merits, or dreaded the resentment, of their victo­

rious general. By the mediation of the pope, who un­

dertook a special pilgrimage to Naples, their repentance

was accepted ; and Narses, assuming a milder aspect and

a more dutiful language, consented to fix his residence

in the Capitol. His death,q though in the extreme pe­

riod of old age, was unseasonable and premature, since

his genius alone could have repaired the last and fatal

error of his life. The reality, or the suspicion, of a con­

spiracy disarmed and disunited the Italians. The soldiers

resented the disgrace, and bewailed the loss, of their

general. They were ignorant of their new exarch, and

Longinus was himself ignorant of the state of the army

and the province. In the preceding years Italy had been

desolated by pestilence and famine; and disaffected peo­

ple ascribed the calamities of nature to the guilt or folly

of their rulers/

R Tbo charge of the deacon against Narses (lib. 2. c. 5.) may be groundless;
but

the weak apology of the cardinal (Baron. Annal. Eccles. A. D. 567. no. 8—12.)
is re­

jected by the best critics—Eagi, (tom! 2, p. 639. 640.) Muratori, (Annali d'
Italia,

tom. 5. p. 160—163.) and the last editors, Horatins Blancus, (Script. Rerum
Italic.

■ tom. 1. p. 427, 428.) and Philip Argelatus, (Sigon. Opera, tom. 2. p.
11,12.) The

Narses who assisted at the coronation of Justin, (Corippus, lib. 3. 221.) is
clearly

understood to be a different person.

1 The death of Narses is mentioned by Paal, lib, 2. c. 11. Anastus. in Vit.
Johan.

3. p. 43; Agneflus, Liber Pontifical. Raven. in Script. Rer. Italicarum, tom.
2. part

1. p. 114. 124. Yet 1 cannot believe with Agnellusthat Narses was ninety-five
years

of age. Is it prohable that all his exploits were performed at fourscore?

'The designs of Narses and of the, Lombards for the invasion of Italy, arc
exposed.

