CHAP.XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

evening are separated by the brightness of the meridian

sun: the Arcadius of the palace arose the Caesar of the

camp; and the honour of Rome and Heraclius was glori­

ously retrieved by the exploits and trophies of six adventur­

ous campaigns. It was the duty of the Byzantine historians

to have revealed the causes of his slumber and vigilance.

At this distance we can only conjecture, that he was en­

dowed with more personal courage than political resolu­

tion; that he was detained by the charms, and perhaps

the arts, of his niece Martina, with whom, after the death

of Eudocia, he contracted an incestuous marriage ;d and

that he yielded to the base advice of the counsellors, who

urged as a fundamental law, that the life of the empe­

ror should never be exposed in the field." Perhaps he

was awakened by the last insolent demand of the Per­

sian conqueror: but at the moment when Heraclius as­

sumed the spirit of a hero, the only hopes of the Romans

were drawn from the vicissitudes of fortune which might

threaten the proud prosperity of Chosroes, and must be

favourable to those who had attained the lowest period of

depression.' To provide for the expenses of war, was

the first care of the emperor; and for the purpose of coU

lecting the tribute, he was allowed to solicit the benevo­

lence of the eastern provinces. But the revenue no longer

flowed in the usual channels; the credit of an arbitrary

prince is annihilated by his power; and the courage of

Heraclius was first displayed in daring to borrow the

consecrated wealth of churches, under the solemn vow of

restoring, with usury, whatever he had been compelled to

a Nicephorus, (p. 10, 11.) who brands this marriage with the names of nQta-pot

and aBejjurcy, is happy to observe, that of two sons, its incestuous fruit,
the elder

was marked by Providence with a stiff neck, he younger with the loss of
hearing.

« George of Pisidia, (Acroas. 1.112—125. p. 5.) who states the opinions,
acquits

the pusillanimous counsellors of any sinister views. Would he have excused the

proud and contemptuous admonition of Crispus 1 EiriGxma^w m* ijw /WiMi ifarai

1 Eiraf tit axgov ijpfAfVrtf ius£ia?

EffaXjUeva; \tyova-iv oux airtiKurivi

TdSia-Qai to \ofjrov IV xaxoj; ta. fttja-iS&c

Avriff-rpj■fait Si, &c. George Pisid. Acroas. 1. 51, &c. p. 4.

The orientals are not less fond of remarking this strange vicissitude: and I
remember

«om« story of Khosrow Parviz, not very unlike tho ring of Polyeratss of Samos.

