310 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

chres. The ricli marbles of a patrician are dashed on

his own head: a whole people is buried under the ruins

of public and private edifices, and the conflagration is

kindled and propagated by the innumerable fires which

are necessary for the subsistence and manufactures of

a great city. Instead of the mutual sympathy which

might comfort and assist the distressed, they dreadfully

experience the Vices and passions which are released

from the fear of punishment: the tottering houses' are

pillaged by intrepid avarice; revenge embraces the mo­

ment, and selects the victim; and the earth often swal­

lows the assassin, or the ravisher, in the consummation

of their crimes. Superstition involves the present dan­

ger with invisible terrors ; and if the image of death may

sometimes be subservient to the virtue or repentance of

individuals, an affrighted people is more forcibly moved

to expect the end of the world, or to deprecate with ser­

vile homage the wrath of an avenging Deity.

.^*s»e— III. ^Ethiopia and Egypt have been stigmatized in

and natare, every age, as the original source and seminary of the

* plagae.* In a damp, hot, stagnating air, this African  
fever is generated from the putrefaction of animal sub­

stances, and especially from the swarms of locusts, not

less destructive to mankind in their death than in their

lives. The fatal disease which depopulated the earth in

the time of Justinian and his successors,' first appeared in

the neighbourhood of Pelusium, between the Sefbonian

bog and the eastern channel of the Nile. From thence,

tracing as it were a double path, it spread to the east,

over Syria, Persia, and the Indies, and penetrated to the

west, along the coast of Africa, and over the continent

of Europe. In the spring of the second year, Constan-

• I have read with pleasure Mead's short, bat elegant treatise, concerning
Pesti­

lential Disorders, the eighth edition, London, 1722.

• The great plagne which raged in 542, and the following years, (Pagi,
Critica,

torn. 2. p. 518.) must be traced in Procopius, (Persic, lib. 2. c. 22, 23.)
Agalhias,

(lib. 5. p. 153, 154.) Evagrius, (lib. 4. c. 29.) Paul Diaconus, (lib. 2. c.
4. p. 776,

777.) Gregory of Tours, (torn. 2. lib. 4. c. 5. p. 205.) who styles it Lues
Inguinaria,.

and the Chronicles of Victox Tunnunensis, (p. 9. in Thesaar. Temporum,) of
Marcel-

linus, (p. 54.) and of Theophanes. (p. 153.)

