DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

tering praise, and the source of more exquisite delight.

Her features were delicate and regular; her complexion,

though somewhat pale, was tinged with a natural colour;

every sensation was instantly expressed by the vivacity of

her eyes; her easy motions displayed the graces of a

small but elegant figure; and either love or adulation

might proclaim, that painting and poetry were incapable

of delineating the matchless excellence of her form.

But this form was degraded by the facility with which it

was exposed to the public eye, and prostituted to licen­

tious desire. Her venal charms were abandoned to a

promiscuous crowd of citizens and strangers, of every

rank, and of every profession; the fortunate lover who

had been promised a night of enjoyment, was often

driven from her bed by a stronger or more wealthy fa­

vourite; and when she passed through the streets, her

presence was avoided by all who wished to escape either

the scandal or the temptation. The satirical historian

has not blushed2 to describe the naked scenes which

Theodora was not ashamed to exhibit in the theatre.1

After exhausting the arts of sensual pleasure,6 she most

ungratefully murmured against the parsimony of nature;°

but her murmurs, her pleasures, and her arts, must be

veiled in the obscurity of a learned language. After

reigning for some time, the delight and contempt of the

capital, she condescended to accompany Ecebolus, a na-

z A fragment of the Anecdotes (e. 9.) somewhat too naked, was surpressed by

Alemannus, though extant in the Vatican MS. nor has the defect been supplied
in the

Paris or Venice editions. La Mothe le Vayer (tom. 8. p. 155.) gave the first
hint

of this carious and genuine passage (Jortin's Remarks, vol. 4. p. 366.) which
he

had received from Rome, and it has been since published in the Menagiana,
(tom. 3.

1». 254—259.) with a Latin version.

a After the mention of a narrow girdle (as none conld appear starknaked in the

theatre), Procopius thus proceeds.—AvawCTrroxwa rt v/ryttajpu uittw 6iEeito.
0>ite«

$e rivc; .... xpi9a; aur»i viriqQii ra>v atim&v tpgtirrov a; 5s oi ot E? touto
iretpeo~HEvito~-

fxvfot miy%avov toi? a-rofxaa-iv ei8a$s xara fxtav aveXojuEvoi tcr9iov. 1 have
heard that a

learned prelato, now deceased, was fond of quoting this passage in
conversation.

b Theodora surpassed the Crispa of Ansonius, (Epigram 71.) who imitated the

capitalis luxus of the females of Nola. See Quintilian Institut. 8. 6. and
Torrentius

ad Morat. Sermon. lib.l. sat. 2.5. 101. At a memorable supper, thirty slaves
wait­

ed round the table; ten young men feasted with Theodora. Her charity was
universal.

Kt lassata viris, necdum satiata, recessit.

c h8e xaK rpiiwv rpuTTnfxcmuv tpyafyf/.tv'i mxuXu rr. <pu?u XurqcgcvfxivtI on
3i fxiI Km

rirrat/; avm tvfvrifw n \uv ua-i rfuTra>v, oitxs SVvarnoj Kai exiivjj
ipya£eo~dai. She wished

for a fourth altar, on which she might pour lihations to the god of lore,

