CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 287

they could only use their lances against an enemy equally

skilled in all the instruments of war. A generous emu-;

lation inspired the Romans and their barbarian allies:

and Narses, who calmly viewed and directed their efforts,.

doubted to whom he should adjudge the prize of supe­

rior bravery. The Gothic cavalry was astonished and

disordered, pressed and broken; and the line of infantry,

instead of presenting their spears, or opening their inter­

vals, were tram pled under the feet ofthe flying horse.

Six thousand of the Goths were slaughtered, without

mercy, in the field of Tagina. Their prince, with five

attendants, was overtakes by Asbad, of the race of the

Gepidae. "Spare the king of Italy," cried a loyal voice,

and Asbad struck his lance through the body of Totila.

The blow was instantly revenged by the faithful Goths;

they transported their dying monarch seven miles beyond,

the scene of his disgrace; and his last moments were

not embittered by the presence of an enemy. Compas­

sion afforded him the shelter of an obscure tomb; but the

Romans were not satisfied of their victory, till they be­

held the corpse of the Gothic king. His hat, enrich­

ed with gems, and his bloody robe, were presented to

Justinian by the messengers of triumph.° , . -

As soon as Narses had paid his devotions to the Au- conquest

thor of victory, and the blessed Virgin, his peculiar pa- by N»r»ei.

troness,p he praised, rewarded, and dismissed the Lom­

bards. The villages had been reduced to ashes by these

valiant savages; they ravished matrons and virgins on

the altar; their retreat was diligently watched by a strong

detachment of regular forces, who prevented a repeti­

tion of the like disorders. The victorious eunuch pur­

sued his march through Tuscany, accepted the submis­

sion of the Goths, heard the acclamations, and often the

complaints, of the Italians, and encompassed the walls of

Rome with the remainder of his formidable host. Round

o Theopbtues, Chron. p. 193. Hi»t. Miscell. lib. 16. p. 103,

P Evagrius, lib. 4. c. 24. The inspiration of the Virgin revealed to Nartei
th*

day, and tin word, of hattle. (Paal Diacon. lib. 2. 0. 3. g. 776.)

