DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

dazzled by glittering arms and regular evolutions; and

the menace of their female prophets was repeatedly ful­

filled, that the Moors should be discomfited by a beard­

less antagonist. The victorious eunuch advanced thir­

teen days' journey from Carthage, to besiege mount

Aurasius/ the citadel, and at the same time the garden,

of Numidia. The range of hills, a branch of the great

Atlas, contains, within a circumference of one hundred

and twenty miles, a rare variety of soil and climate; the

intermediate valleys and elevated plains abound with

rich pastures, perpetual streams, and fruits of a delicious

taste and uncommon magnitude. This fair solitude is

decorated with the ruins of Lambesa, a Roman city, once

the seat of a legion, and the residence of forty thousand

inhabitants. The Ionic temple of iEsculapius is encom­

passed with Moorish huts; and the cattle now graze in

the midst of an amphitheatre, under the shade of Corin­

thian columns. A sharp perpendicular rock rises above

the level of the mountain, where the African princes de­

posited their wives and treasure; and a proverb is familiar

to the Arabs, that the man may eat fire, who dares to

attack the craggy cliffs and inhospitable natives of mount

Aurasius. This hardy enterprise was twice attempted

by the eunuch Solomon: from the first, he retreated

with some disgrace; and in the second, his patience and

provisions were almost exhausted; and he must again

have retired, if he had not yielded to the impetuous cou­

rage of his troops, who audaciously scaled, to the asto­

nishment of the Moors, the mountain, the hostile camp,

and the summit of the Geminian rock. A citadel was

erected to secure this important conquest, and to remind

the barbarians of their defeat: and as Solomon pursued

his march to the west, the long-lost province of Mauri-

tanian Sitifi was again annexed to the Roman empire.

i Procopius is tie first who describes mount Aurasius. (Vandal. lib. 2. c. 13.

De ediOc. lib. 6. c. 7.) He may be compared with Leo Africanus, (dell Africa,
parte

5. in Bamiwio, torn. 1. fol. 77, recto) Marmol, (torn. 2. p. 430.) and Shaw,
(p.

