136 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

has been too minutely described by the historians of the

times."

nescrip. The extreme length of the Euxine sea,' from Constan-

c'ou-hos tinople to the mouth of the Phasis, may be computed as

Miogreii" a vova&c °^ nme days, and a measure of seven hundred

miles. From the Iberian Caucasus the most lofty and

craggy mountains of Asia, that river descends with such

oblique vehemence, that, in a short space, it is traversed

by one hundred and twenty bridges. Nor does the

stream become placid and navigable, till it reaches the

town of Sarapana, five days' journey from the Cyrus,

which flows from the same hills, but in a contrary di­

rection, to the Caspian lake. The proximity of these

rivers has suggested the practice, or at least the idea,

of wafting the precious merchandise of India down the

Oxus, over the Caspian, up the Cyrus, and with the

current of the Phasis into the Euxine and Mediterranean

seas. As it successively collects the streams of the plain

of Colchos, the Phasis moves with diminished speed,

though accumulated weight. At the mouth it is sixty

fathom deep and half a league broad, but a small woody

island is interposed in the midst of the channel: the

water, so soon as it has deposited an earthly or metallic

sediment, floats on the surface of the waves, and is no

longer susceptible of corruption. In a course of one

hundred miles, forty of which are navigable for large ves­

sels, the Phasis divides the celebrated region of Colchos,™

8 The Lazic war, the content of Rome and Persia on the Phasis, is tediously
spun

through many a page of Procopius, (Persic, lib. 2. c. 15. 17. 28—30. Gothic
lib. 4.

c. 7—lfr.) and Agulhias. (lib. 2—4. p. 55—132. 141.) ,

'The Periplus, or circumnavigation Of the Euxine sea, was desoribed in Latin
by

Sallust, and in Greek by Arrian.—1. The former work, which no longer exists,
has

been restored by the lingular diligence of M. de Brosses, first president of
the par­

liament of Dijon, (Hist, de la Republique Romaine, lorn. 2. lib. 3. p.
199—298.) who

ventures to assume the character of the Roman historian. His description of
the Euxine

is ingeniously formed of all the fragments of the original, and of all the
Greeks and

Latins whom Sallust might copy, or by whom he might lie copied; and the merit
of

the execution atones for the whimsical design. 2 The Periplus of Arrian is ad­

dressed to the emperor Adrian, (in Geograph. Minor. Hudson, torn. 1.) and
contains

whatever the governor of Pontus had seen, from Trebizoud to Dioscorias;
whatever ■

be had heard from Dioscurias to the Danube; and whatever he knewfrointho
Danube'

to Trebizoud.

■ Besides many occasional hints from the poets, historians, &c. of antiquity,
we

