350 .' Decline And fall' [fcHAP. xlYv,

freedom

of the ma­

trimonial

o m tract.

gamy was unknown, he could never admit to his ted a

fairer or more favoured partner.

After the Punic triumphs, the matrons of Rome as­

pired to the common benefits of a free and opulent re­

public: their Wishes were gratified by the indulgence of

fathers and lovers, and their ambition was unsuccessfully

resisted by the gravity of Cato the Censor/ They de­

clined the solemnities of the bid nuptials, defeated the

annual prescription by an absence of three days, and-,

without losing their name or independence, subscribed

"the liberal and definite terms of a marriage-contract

Of their private fortunes, they communicated the use,

and secured the property; the estates of a wife could

neither be alienated nor mortgaged by a prodigal hus-<

band; their mutual gifts were prohibited by the jealousy

of the laws; and the misconduct of either party might

afford, under another name, a future subject for an acj

tion of theft. To this loose and voluntary compact,

religious and civil rites were no longer essential; and*

between persons of a similar rank, the apparent commu­

nity of life was allowed as sufficient evidence'of their

nuptials. The dignity of marriage was restored by the

Christians, who derived all spiritual grace from the pray­

ers of the faithful and the benediction of the priest or

bishop. The origin, validity, and duties of the holy in­

stitution, were regulated by the tradition of the syna­

gogue, the precepts of the Gospel, and the canons'of

general or provincial synods ;f and the conscience of the

Christians was awed'by the decrees and censures of their

But the student or doctor was free from tribute; and no wife, if she received
a weekly

sustenance, could sue for divorce: for one week a vow of abstinence was
allowed.

Polygamy divided, without multiplying, the duties of the hushand.
(Selden.'Uxor.

Ebraica, "lib. 3. c. 6. in his works, vol. 2. p. 717—720.)

■ On the Oppian law we may hear the mitigating speech of Valerius Flaccus, and

the severe censorial oration of the elder Cato, (Liv. 34. 1—8.) But we shall
ra­

ther hear the polished historian nf the eighth, than the rough orators of the
sixth,

century of Rome. The principles, and even the style, of Cato are more
accurately

preserved by Aulas Gellius. (10. 23.)

f For the system of Jewish and Catholic matrimony, see Selden, (Uxor Ebraica,

Opp. vol. 2. p. 529—860.) Bingham, (Christian Antiquities, lib. 2J.) and
Chardot.

(Hist, des Sacremens, tom. 6.)

