CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 121

conjugal fidelity, she expressed a manly friendship to

Belisarius, whom she accompanied with undaunted reso­

lution in all the hardships and dangers of a military

life.8

The preparations for the African war were not un- Prepara-

worthy of the last contest between Rome and Carthage, the African

The pride and flower of the army consisted of the guards ™p 533.

of Belisarius, who, according to the pernicious indulgence

of the times, devoted themselves by a particular oath of

fidelity to the service of their patron. Their strength

and stature, for which they had been curiously selected,

the goodness of their horses and armour, and the assi­

duous practice of all the exercises of war, enabled them

to act whatever their courage might prompt; and their

courage was exalted by the social honour of their rank,

and the personal ambition of favour and fortune. Four

hundred of the bravest of the Heruli marched under the

banner of the faithful and active Pharas ; their untracta-

ble valour was more highly prized than the tame sub­

mission of the Greeks and Syrians; and of such import­

ance was it deemed to procure a reinforcement of six

hundred Massagetas, or Huns, that they were allured by

fraud and deceit to engage in a naval expedition. Five

thousand horse and ten thousand foot were embarked at

Constantinople for the conquest of Africa; but the in­

fantry, for the most part levied in Thrace and Isauria,

yielded to the more prevailing use and reputation of the

cavalry; and the Scythian bow was the weapon on which

the armies of Rome were now reduced to place their

principal dependence.' From a laudable desire to assert

the dignity of his theme, Procopius defends the soldiers

of his own time against the morose critics, who confined

that respectable name to the heavy-armed warriors of

antiquity, and maliciously observed, that the word archer

is introduced by Homer1" as a term of contempt. "Such

t See the hirth and character of Antonina, in the Anecdotes, c. 1. and the
notes of

Alemanus, p. 3.

11 See the preface of Procopius. The enemies of archery might quote the
reproaches

VOL. V. K

