242 ". DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

preserved his name, extended no farther than the neigh­

bourhood of Trebizond. Beyond these limits the forti­

fications of Hyssus, of Apsarus, of the Phasis, of Dioscu-

rias or Sebastopolis, and of Pity us, were guarded by

sufficient detachments of horse and foot; and six princes

of Colchos received their diadems from the lieutenants of

visitor Caesar. One of these lieutenants, the eloquent and phi-

A.D.I90. losophic Arrian, surveyed, and has described, the Euxine

coast, under the reign of Hadrian. The garrison which

he reviewed at the mouth of the Phasis, consisted of four

hundred chosen legionaries; the brick-walls and towers,

- the double ditch, and the military engines on the rampart,  
rendered this place inaccessible to the bkrbarians; but

the new suburbs, which had been built by the merchants

and veterans, required, in the opinion of Arrian, some

external defence.1 As the strength of the empire was

gradually impaired, the Romans stationed on the Phasis

were either withdrawn or expelled; and the tribe of the

Lazi,™ whose posterity speak a foreign dialect, and inha­

bit the sea-coast of Trebizond, imposed their name and

dominion on the ancient kingdom of Colchos. Their in­

dependence was soon invaded by a formidable neighbour,

who had acquired, by arms and treaties, the sovereignty

of Iberia. The dependant king of Lazica received his

sceptre at the hands of the Persian monarch and the

successors of Constantine acquiesced in this injurious

claim, which was proudly urged as a right of immemorial

conversion prescription. In the beginning of the sixth century,

a?d! 522.' tneir influence was restored by the introduction of

Christianity, which the Mingrelians still profess with be­

coming zeal, without understanding the doctrines, or

observing the precepts, of their religion. After the de-

1 Iu the time of Procopius, there were no Roman forts on the Phasis. Pytius
and

Sehastopolis were evacuated on the romour of the Persians; (Goth. lib. 4. c.
4.) but

the latter was afterward restored by Justiniau. (de Edif. lib. 4. o. 7.)

■ In the time of Pliny, Arrian, and Ptolemy, the Lazi were a particular tribe
on

the northern skirt of Colchos. (Cellarius, Geograph. Antiq. tom. 2. p. 222.)
In the

age of Justinian, they spread, or at least reigned, over the whole country. At
pre-

'sent they have migrated along the coast towards Trehizond, and compose a rude
sea*

faring people, with a peculiar language. (Chardin, p. 149. Peyssonoel, p. 64.)

