CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN■ EMPIRE.

tinople, during three or four months, was visited by the

pestilence ; and Procopius, who observed its progress and

symptoms with the eyes of a physician," has emulated

the skill and diligence of Thucydides in the description

of the plague of Athens/ The infection was sometimes

announced by the visions of a distempered fancy, and the

victim despaired as soon as he had heard the menace and

felt the stroke of an invisible spectre. But the greater

number, in their beds, in the streets, in their usual occu­

pation, were surprised by a slight fever ; so slight, indeed,

that neither the pulse nor the colour of the patient gave

any signs of the approaching danger. The same, the

next, or the succeeding day, it was declared by the swell­

ing of the glands, particularly those of the groin, of the

arm-pits, and under the ear; and when these buboes or

tumours were opened, they were found to contain a coal,

or black substance, of the size of a lentil. If they came

to-a just swelling and suppuration, the patient was

saved by this kind and natural discharge of the morbid

humour. But if they continued hard and dry, a morti­

fication quickly ensued, and the fifth day was commonly

the term of his life. The fever was often accompanied

with lethargy or delirium; the bodies of the sick were

covered with black pustules or carbuncles, fhe symptoms

of immediate death; and in the constitutions too feeble

to produce an eruption, the vomiting of blood was fol­

lowed by a mortification of the bowels. To pregnant1

women the plague was generally mortal: yet one infant

was drawn alive from his dead mother, and three mo­

thers survived the loss of their infected foetus. Youth

was the. most perilous season; and the female ser was

« nr. Friend (Hist. Medioiu. in Opp. p. 416—420. Lond. 1733.) is satisfied
that

Procopius must have studied pbysic, from his knowledge and use of the
technical

words. Yet many words that are now scientific, were common and popular in the

Greek idiom.

1 See Thucydides, lib. 2. c. 47—54. p. 127—133. edit. Duker, and the poetical

description of the same plague by Lucretius, (lib. 6.1136—1284.) I was
indebted

to Dr. Hunter for an elaborate commentary on this part of Thuoydides, a quarto
of

sic hundred pages, (Vehet. 1603, apud Juntas,) which was pronounced in St.
Mark's

library, by Fahius Paulliuus Utinensis, a pbysician and phih/sophey.

