CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

an aerial cupola, is entitled to the praise of bold design

and skilful execution. The dome of St. Sophia, illumi­

nated by four-and-twenty windows, is formed with so

small a curve, that the depth is equal only to one-sixth

of its diameter; the measure of that diameter is one hun­

dred and fifteen feet, and the lofty centre, where a cres­

cent has supplanted the cross, rises to the perpendicular

height of one hundred and eighty feet above the pave­

ment. The circle, which encompasses the dome, lightly

reposes on four strong arches, and their weight is firmly

supported by four massy piles, whose strength is assisted

on the northern and southern sides by four columns of

Egyptian granite. A Greek cross, inscribed in a quad­

rangle, represents the form of the edifice; the exact

breadth is two hundred and forty-three feet, and two

hundred and sixty-nine may be assigned for the extreme

length from the sanctuary in the east to the nine western

doors which open in the vestibule, and from thence into

the narthex, or exterior portico. That portico was the

humble station of the penitents. The nave or body of

the church was filled by the congregation of the faithful;

but the two sexes were prudently distinguished, and the

upper and lower galleries were allotted for the more pri­

vate devotion of the women. Beyond the northern and

southern piles, a balustrade, terminated on either side by

the thrones of the emperor and the patriarch, divided

the nave from the choir: and the space, as far as the

steps of the altar, was occupied by the clergy and singers.

The altar itself, a name which insensibly became fa­

miliar to Christian ears, was placed in the eastern recess,

artificially built in the form of a demi-cylinder; and this

sanctuary communicated by several doors with the sa­

cristy, the vestry, the baptistery, and the contiguous

buildings, subservient either to the pomp of worship, or

the private use of the ecclesiastical ministers. The me­

mory of past calamities inspired Justinian with a wise re­

solution, that no wood, except for the doors, should be

