3 DECLINE AND FALL. [CHAP. XXXIX.

the ample pay of thirteen thousand men, were required

for the least considerable of their armies;+ and the Isau-

rians, who guarded not the empire, but the emperor, en­

joyed, besides the privilege of rapine, an annual pension

<pf five thousand pounds. The sagacious mind of Theo-

doric soon perceived that he was odious to the Romans,

and suspected by the barbarians; he understood the po­

pular murmur, that his subjects were exposed in their

frozen huts to intolerable hardships, while their king

was dissolved in the luxury of Greece; and he prevented

the painful alternative of encountering the Goths, as the

champion, or of leading them to the field as the enemy,

©f Zeno. Embracing an enterprise wor thy of his courage

and ambition, Theodoric addressed the emperor in the

following words:—" Although your servant is main­

tained in affluence by your liberality, graciously listen to

the wishes of my heart! Italy, the inheritance of your

predecessors, and Rome itself, the head and mistress of

the world, now fluctuate under the violence and oppres­

sion of Odoacer the mercenary. Direct me, with my

national troops, to march against the tyrant. If I fall,

you will be relieved from an expensive and troublesome

friend: if with the divine permission, I succeed, I shall

govern in, your name, and to your glory, the Roman se­

nate, and the part of the republic delivered from slavery

by my victorious arms." The proposal of Theodoric was

accepted, and perhaps had been suggested, by the Byzan­

tine court But the forms of the commission, or grant,

appear to have been expressed with a prudent ambiguity,

which might be explained by the event; and it was left

doubtful, whether the conqueror of Italy should reign as

the lieutenant, the vassal, or the ally, of the emperor of

the east.q

Hit march. The reputation both of the leader and of the war dif-

P Malohas, p. 85. In a single action which was decided by the skill and disci­

pline of Sabiman, Theodoric could lose live thousand men.'

1 Jornandes, (c. 57. p. 696, 697.) has abridged the great history of
Cassiodorius.

See, compare, and reconcile, Procopius, (Gothic, lib. 1. c. 1.) the Valesian
Frag,

meat, (p. 718.) Theophanes, (p. 113.) and Marcellinas,(in Chran.)

