CHAP. XLI.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

ing, and again crossing each other, inclosed within their

solid and lofty arches a fortified space,5 where Vitiges

established a camp of seven thousand Goths to intercept

the convoys of Sicily and Campania. The granaries of

Rome were insensibly exhausted, the adjacent country

had been wasted with fire and sword: such scanty sup­

plies as might yet be obtained by hasty excursions, were

the reward of valour, and the purchase of wealth: the

forage of the horses, and the bread of the soldiers, never

failed; but in the last months of the siege, the people

were exposed to the miseries of scarcity, unwholesome

food,' and contagious disorders. Belisarius saw and

pitied their sufferings; but he had foreseen, and he

watched the decay of their loyalty, and the progress of

their discontent. Adversity had awakened the Romans

from the dreams of grandeur and freedom, and taught

them the humiliating lesson, that it was of small moment

to their real happiness, whether the name of their mas­

ter was derived from the Gothic or the Latin language.

The lieutenant of Justinian listened to their just com­

plaints, but he rejected with disdain the idea of flight or

capitulation; repressed their clamorous impatience for

battle; amused them with the prospect of sure and

speedy relief; and secured himself and the city from the

effects of their despair or treachery. Twice in each

month he changed the station of the officers to whom

the custody of the gates was committed: the various

precautions, of patroles, watchwords, lights, and music,

were repeatedly employed to discover whatever passed on

the ramparts; out-guards were posted beyond the ditch,

and the trusty vigilance of dogs supplied the moredoubt-

« Prooopius (Goth. lib. 2. c. 3.) has forgot to name these aqueducts : nor can
such a

double intersection, at such a distance from Rome, be clearly ascertained from
the

writings of Froutinus Fabretti and Ksohinard, de Aquis and de Agro Romano, or

from the local maps of Lometi and Cingolani. Seven or eight miles from the
city,

(fifty stadia) on the road to Alhano, between the Latin and Appian ways, I
discern

the remains of an aqueduct (prohably the Septimian), a series (six hundred and
thir­

ty paces) of arches twenty-five feethigh. (u+bXm ia-ayav.)'

i They made sausages, iXXttra;, of mule's flesh: unwholesome, if the animal*
had

died of the plague. Otherwise the famous Bologna sansages are said to be made
of

■Mi flesh. (Voyages de Lahat, tom. 2. p. 218.)

