448 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

with indignation when he dared to vilify the character of

Chosroes; and by the indiscreet offer of resigning the

sceptre to the second of his sons, he subscribed his own

condemnation, and sacrificed the life of his innocent fa­

vourite. The mangled bodies of the boy and his mo­

ther were exposed to the people; the eyes of Hormouz

were pierced with a hot needle; and the punishment of

the father was succeeded by the coronation of his eldest

Elevation son. Chosroes had ascended the throne without guilt,

chosroes? an^ ^is piety strove to alleviate the misery of the abdi­

cated monarch: from the dungeon he removed Hor­

mouz to an apartment of the palace, supplied with libe­

rality the consolations of sensual enjoyment, and patient­

ly endured the furious sallies of his resentment and de­

spair. He might despise the resentment of a blind and

unpopular tyrant, but the tiara was trembling on his

head, till he could subvert the power, or acquire the

friendship, of the great Bahram, who sternly denied the

justice of a revolution, in which himself and his soldiers,

the true representatives of Persia, had never been con­

sulted. The offer of a general amnesty, and of the se­

cond rank in his kingdom, was answered by an epistle

from Bahram, friend of the gods, conqueror of men, and

enemy of tyrants, the satrap of satraps, general of the

Persian armies, and a prince adorned with the title of

eleven virtues.° He commands Chosroes, the son of

Hormouz, to shun the example and fate of his father, to

confine the traitors who had been released from their

chains, to deposit in some holy place the diadem which

he had usurped, and to accept from his gracious bene­

factor the pardon of his faults and the government of a

province. The rebel might not be proud, and the king

most assuredly was. not humble; but the one was con­

scious of his strength, and the other was sensible qf his

o See the-words of Theophylact, lib. 4. c. 7. Bo;<t/u <fiXo; rut Hi'it, «xnra«
mf«ij;»

rujavnav tyift, «r{aTnic peyta-raim, rn; nifeim; *tX.m ti"*f'-(i &e. In this
answer,

Qhosross styles himself td vdxti xaflK°Pan off*ar* • • • • » toi/; Af«W{ (the
genii)

(uir&sujutrot. This is genuine oriental bomhast,

