CHAP.XLIII.] OF THE RODMAN EMPIRE. 261

The arrival'of fresh troops and more skilful commanders,

soon checked the insolence of the Moot's; seventeen of

their princes were slain in the same battle; and the

doubtful and transient submission of their tribes was ce­

lebrated with lavish applause by the people of Constanti­

nople. Successive inroads had reduced the province of

Africa to one-third of the measure of Italy; yet the Ro­

man emperors continued to reign above a century over

Carthage, and the fruitful coast of the Mediterranean.

But the victories and the losses of Justinian were alike

pernicious to mankind; and such was the desolation of

Africa, that in many parts a stranger might wander whole

days without meeting the face either of a friend or an

enemy. The nation of the Vandals had disappeared;

they once amounted to a hundred and sixty thousand

.warriors, without including the children, the women, or

the slaves. Their numbers were infinitely surpassed by

the number of the Moorish families extirpated in a re­

lentless war; and the same destruction was retaliated on

the Romans^and their allies, who perished by the climate,

.their mutual quarrels, and the rage of the barbarians.

When Procopius first landed, he admired the populous-

ness of the cities and country, strenuously exercised in

the labours of commerce and agriculture. In less than

jtwenty years, that busy scene was converted into a silent

solitude; the wealthy citizens escaped to Sicily and Con­

stantinople; and the secret historian has confidently

affirmed, that five millions of Africans were consumed

by the wars and government of the emperor Justinian.6

The jealousy of the Byzantine court had not permit- Revolt of

ted Belisarius to achieve the conquest of Italy; and his a'.6^^

abrupt departure revived the courage of the Goths/ who

* Procopias, Anecdot. c. 18. The series of Uie African history attests this melan­  
choly truth.

'In the second (c. 30.) and thicd books, (c. 1—40.) Procopias continues the
his­

tory of the Gothic war from the fiflh to the fifteenth year of Justinian. As
the events

are less interesting than in the former period, he allots only half the space
t<> dou­

ble the time. Jornandes and the Chronicle of Marcellinus, afford some
collateral

hints. Sigooius, Pagi, Muiaturi, Mascou, and De Bust, are useful, and have
been •' •

used. .; .. 1 ' . :• . m

