PREFACE.

I now discharge my promise, and complete my design, of

writing the History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman

Empire, both in the west and the east. The whole period ex­

tends from the age of Trajan and the Antonines, to the taking

of Constantinople by Mahomet II.; and includes a review of

the crusades and the state of Rome during the middle ages.

Since the publication of the first* volume, twelve years have

elapsed: twelve years, according to my wish, "of health, of

leisure, and of perseverance." I may now congratulate my

deliverance from a long and laborious service, and my satis­

faction will be pure and perfect, if the public favour should

be extended to the conclusion of my work.

It was my first intention to have collected, under one view,

the numerous authors, of every age and language, from whom

I have derived the materials of this history; and I am still

convinced that the apparent ostentation would be more than

compensated by real use. If I have renounced this idea; if

I have declined an undertaking which had obtained the ap­

probation of a master-artist,f my excuse may be found in

the extreme difficulty of assigning a proper measure to such

a catalogue. A naked list of names and editions would not

be satisfactory either to myself or my readers ; the characters

of the principal authors of the Roman and Byzantine History

have been occasionally connected with the events which they

describe; a more copious and critical inquiry might indeed

deserve, but it would demand, an elaborate volume, which

might swell by degrees into a general library of historical

writers. For the present I shall content myself with renew­

ing my serious protestation, that I have always endeavoured

to draw from the fountain-head; that my curiosity, as well

as a sense of duty, has always urged me to study the origi­

nals; and that, if they have sometimes eluded my search, I

* Alluding to the tfaarto edition, in which size the work was originally published,  
t See Dr. Robertson's Preface to his History of America.

VOL. v. b

