DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

quent pilgrimages to worship the Muses in their favour­

ite temple on the banks of the Ilissus. The Latin con­

querors respectfully listened to the instructions of their

subjects and captives; the names of Cicero and Horace

were enrolled in the schools of Athens; and, after the

perfect settlement of the Roman empire, the natives of

Italy, of Africa, and of Britain, conversed in the groves

of the academy with their fellow-students of the east.

The studies of philosophy and eloquence are congenial

to a popular state, which encourages the freedom of

inquiry, and submits only to the force of persuasion.

In the republics of Greece and Rome, the art of speak­

ing was the powerful engine of patriotism or ambition;

and the schools of rhetoric poured forth a colony of

statesmen and legislators. When the liberty of public

debate was suppressed, the orator, in the honourable

profession of an advocate, might plead the cause of inno­

cence and justice; he might abuse his talents in the

more profitable trade of panegyric; and the same pre­

cepts continued to dictate the fanciful declamations of

the sophist, and the chaster beauties of historical compo­

sition. The systems, which professed to unfold the na­

ture of God, of man, and of the universe, entertained

the curiosity of the philosophic student; and, according

to the temper of his mind, he might doubt with the

sceptics, or decide with the Stoics, sublimely speculate

with Plato, or severely argue with Aristotle. The pride

of the adverse sects had fixed an unattainable term of

moral happiness and perfection; but the race was glori­

ous and salutary; the disciples of Zeno, and even those

of Epicurus, were taught both to act and to suffer;

and the death of Petronius was not less effectual than

that of Seneca, to humble a tyrant by the discovery of

his impotence. The light of science could not indeed

be confined within the walls of Athens. Her incompa­

rable writers address themselves to the human race; the

Jiving masters emigrated to Italy and Asia; Berytus, in

