DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. X

the streets: a general persecution is exercised against

our name and colour. Let us die, O emperor! but let

us die by your command, and for your service!" But

the repetition of partial and passionate invectives de­

graded, in their eyes, the majesty of the purple; they

renounced allegiance to the prince who refused justice to

his people; lamented that the father of Justinian had

been born; and branded his son with the opprobrious

names of a homicide, an ass, and a perjured tyrant.

"Do you despise your lives?" cried the indignant mo­

narch: the blues rose with fury from their seats; their

hostile clamours thundered in the hippodrome; and their

adversaries, deserting the unequal contest, spread terror

and despair through the streets of Constantinople. At

this dangerous moment, seven notorious assassins of

both factions, who had been condemned by the prefect,

were carried round the city, and afterward transported

to the place of execution in the suburb of Pera. Four

were immediately beheaded; a fifth was hanged: but

when the same punishment was inflicted on the remain­

ing two, the rope broke, they fell alive to the ground,

the populace applauded their escape, and the monks of

St. Conon, issuing from the neighbouring convent, con­

veyed them in a boat to the sanctuary of the church.*

As one of these criminals was of the blue, and the other

of the green livery, the two factions were equally pro­

voked by the cruelty of their oppressor, or the ingratitude

of their patron ; and a short truce was concluded till they

had delivered their prisoners, and satisfied their revenge.

The palace of the prefect, who withstood the seditious

torrent, was instantly burnt, his officers and guards were

massacred, the prisons were forced open, and freedom

was restored to those who could only use it for the pub­

lic destruction. A military force, which had been dis­

patched to the aid of the civil magistrate, was fiercely

encountered by an armed multitude, whose numbers

e See this church and monastery in Dacange, C P. Christiana, lib. 4. p. 182.

