DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

and moderation in a contest with their Roman brethren.

The rigid and parsimonious virtues of Maurice had long

since alienated the hearts of his subjects; as he walked

barefoot in a religious procession, he was rudely assaulted

with stones, and his guards were compelled to present

their iron-maces in the defence of his person. A, fa­

natic monk ran through the streets with a drawn sword,

denouncing against him the wrath and the sentence of

God; and a vile plebeian, who represented his counte­

nance and apparel, was .seated on an ass, and pursued by

the imprecations of the multitude.11 The emperor sus­

pected the popularity of Germanus with the soldiers and

citizens; he feared, he threatened, but he delayed to

strike; the patrician fled to the sanctuary of the church;

the people rose in his defence, the walls were deserted

by the guards, and the lawless city was abandoned to

the flames and rapine of a nocturnal tumult. In a small

bark, the unfortunate Maurice, with his wife and nine

children, escaped to the Asiatic shore; but the violence

of the wind compelled him to land at the church of St.

Autonomus," near Chalcedon, from whence he dis­

patched Theodosius, his eldest son, to implore the grati­

tude and friendship of the Persian monarch. For him-

• self, he refused to fly; his body was tortured with sciatic

pains/ his mind was enfeebled by superstition; he pa­

tiently awaited the event of the revolution, and addressed

a fervent and public prayer to the Almighty, that the

punishment of his sins might be inflicted in this world

"In their clamours against Maurice, the people of Constantinople branded him

with the name of Marcionite or Marcionist: a heresy, (says Theopbylact, lib.
8. c. 9.)

fAsra two? jwauja; EvXafftias, Eu>!0nc te xai xaray&a.a-ros. Did the^ only
cast oat a

vague reproach, or had the emperor really listened to some obscure teacher of
those

ancient Gnostics?

* The church of St. Antonomus (whom I have not the honour to know) was one  
hundred aud fifty Stadia from Constantinople. (Theopbylact, lib. 8. c. 9.) The
port

of Entropies, where Maurice and his children were murdered, is described by
Gyllius

(de Bosphoio Thracio, lib. 3. c. 11.) as one of the two harbours of Chalcedon.

1 The inhahitants of Constantinople were generally subject to the nm apBpmie;
j

and Theopbylact insinuates, (lib. 8. c. 9.) that if it Were consistent with
the rules of

liistory, he could assign the medical cause. Yet such a digression would not
have

been more impertinent than his inquiry (lib. 7. c. 16,17.) into the annual
inundatious

of the Nile, and all the opinions of the Greek philosophers on that subject.

