DECLINE AND FAEX [CHAP. XLI.

brother Zano, who expressed a sanguine confidence that

the king, after the example of their ancestors, had al­

ready chastised the rashness of the Roman invader.

"Alas! my brother, (replied Gelimer,) Heaven has de­

clared against our unhappy nation. While you have

subdued Sardinia, we have lost Africa. No sooner did

Belisarius appear with a handful of soldiers, than courage

and prosperity deserted the cause of the Vandals. Your

nephew Gibamund, your brother Ammatas, have been

betrayed to death by the cowardice of their followers.

Our horses, our ships, Carthage itself, and all Africa,

are in the power of the enemy. Yet the Vandals still

prefer an ignominious repose, at the expense of their

wives and children, their wealth and liberty. Nothing

now remains, except the field of Bulla, and the hope of

your valour. Abandon Sardinia; fly to our relief; re­

store our empire, or perish by our side." On the re­

ceipt of this epistle, Zano imparted his grief to the prin­

cipal Vandals; but the intelligence was prudently con­

cealed from the natives of the island. The troops em­

barked in one hundred and twenty galleys at the port of

Cagliari, cast anchor the third day on the confines of

Mauritania, and hastily pursued their march to join the

royal standard in the camp of Bulla. Mournful was the

interview: the two brothers embraced; they wept in si­

lence; no questions were asked of the Sardinian victory;

HO inquiries were made of the African misfortunes: they

saw before ,their eyes the whole extent of their calami­

ties; and the absence of their wives and children af­

forded a melancholy proof, that either death or capti­

vity had been their lot. The languid spirit of the Van­

dals was at length awakened and united by the entreaties

of their king, the example of Zano, and the instant dan­

ger which threatened their monarchy and religion. The

military strength of the nation advanced to battle; and

such was the rapid increase, that, before their army

reached Tricameron, about twenty miles from Carthage,

