CHAP. XLV.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 3Q5

night, his domestics were awakened by an importunate

crowd, who thundered at his door, and obtained admit­

tance by revealing themselves to be the principal mem­

bers of the senate. These welcome deputies announced

the recent and momentous secret of the emperor's de­

cease: reported, or perhaps invented, his dying choice

of the best beloved and the most deserving of his ne­

phews, and conjured Justin to prevent the disorders of

the multitude, if they should perceive, with the return

of light, that they were left without a master. After

composing his countenance to surprise, sorrow, and de­

cent modesty, Justin, by the advice of his wife Sophia,

submitted to the authority of the senate. He was conduct­

ed with speed and silence to the palace; the guards sa­

luted their new sovereign, and the martial and religious

rites of his coronation were diligently accomplished. By

the hands of the proper officers he was invested with the

imperial garments, the red buskins, white tunic, and pur­

ple robe. A fortunate soldier, whom he instantly pro­

moted to the rank of tribune, encircled his neck with a

military collar: four robust youths exalted him on a

shield; he stood firm and erect to receive the adoration

of his subjects; and their choice was sanctioned by the

benediction of the patriarch, who imposed the diadem on Reign of

the head of an orthodox prince. The hippodrome was or the"

already filled with innumerable multitudes; and no ^"d^'s

sooner did the emperor appear on his throne, than the 1S-'

voices of the blue and the green factions were confound- December,

ed in the same loyal acclamations. In the speeches

which Justin addressed to the senate and people, he pro­

mised to correct the abuses which had disgraced the age

of his predecessor, displayed the maxims of a just and

beneficent government, and declared, that on the ap- His con •

proaching calends of January/ he would revive in his a.'d! see,

January 1.

c It is surprising how Pagi (Critica in Anna!. Barou. tpm. 2. p. 639.) conld
be

tempted by any chronicles to contradict the plain and decisive text of
Corippus (vi­

dua dona, lib. 2. 354; vidua dies, lib. 4. 1.) and to postpone, till A. D.
567, the con-

mlship of Justin.

1 D 1

