CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4QI

the capital was assaulted by the Avars, who had made

some progress in the science of attack; they advanced to

sap or batter the wall, under the cover of the impenetra­

ble tortoise; their engines discharged a perpetual volley

of stones and darts; and twelve lofty towers of wood ex­

alted the combatants to the height of the neighbouring

ramparts. But the senate and people were animated by

the spirit df Heraclius, who had detached to their relief a.

body of twelve thousand cuirassiers; the powers of fire

and mechanics were used with superior art and success in

the defence of Constantinople; and the galleys, with two

and three ranks of oars, commanded the Bosphorus, and

rendered the Persians the idle spectators of the defeat of

their allies. The Avars were repulsed; a fleet of Scla-

vonian canoes was destroyed in the harbour; the vassals

of the chagan threatened to desert, his provisions were

exhausted, and after burning his engines, he gave the

signal of a slow and formidable retreat. The devotion

of the Romans ascribed this signal deliverance to the

Virgin Mary; but the mother of Christ would surely

have condemned their inhuman murder of the Persian

envoys, who were entitled to the rights of humanity, if

they were not protected by the laws of nations."

: After the division of his army, Heraclius -prudently re- Alliances

tired to the banks of the Phasis, from whence he main-and I°"",

* quests ot

tained a defensive war against the fifty thousand gold Herac,iafc

spears of Persia. His anxiety was relieved by the deli­

verance of Constantinople; his hopes were confirmed

by a victory of his brother Theodorus; and to the hos­

tile league of Chosroes with the Avars, the Roman em­

peror opposed the useful and honourable alliance of the

Turks. At his liberal invitation, the horde of Chozarsf

Yet I maoh question whether the senate and people of Constantinople laughed at
this

message of the chagan. ■ ■

e The Paschal Chronicle (p. 392—397.) gives a minnte and authentic narrative
of

the siege and deliverance of Constantinople. Theophanes (p. 264.) adds some
cir­

cumstances; and a faint light may be obtained from the smoke of George of
Pisidia,

who has composed a poem (de Bello Abarico, p. 45—54.) to commemorate this aus­

picious event.

'The power of the Chozars prevailed in the seventh, eighth, and ninth
centuries.

They were known to the Greeks, the Arabs, and, under the name of Kosa, to the

Chinese themselves. De Guignes, Hist. des Huns, tom. 2. part 2. p. 507—509.

1 K 2

