CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 105

emperor as a new era of freedom and prosperity. The

deputies of the pope and clergy, of the senate and people,

invited the lieutenant of Justinian to accept their volun­

tary allegiance, and to enter the city, whose gates would

be thrown open for his reception. As soon as Belisa-

rius had fortified his new conquests, Naples and Cumse,

he advanced about twenty miles to the banks of the Vul-

turnus, contemplated the decayed grandeur of Capua,

and halted at the separation of the Latin and Appian

ways. The work of the censor, after the incessant use

of nine centuries, still preserved its primeval beauty, and

not a flaw could be discovered in the large polished stones,

of which that solid, though narrow road, was so firmly

compacted/ Belisarius, however, preferred the Latin

way, which, at a distance from the sea and marshes,

skirted, in a space of one. hundred and twenty miles, along

the foot of the mountains. His enemies had disappeared: Belisarius

when he made his entrance through the Asinarian gate, r^,™

the garrison departed without molestation along the Fla- ^J?'^6'

ininian way; and the city, after sixty years servitude,

was delivered from the yoke of the barbarians. Leuderis

alone, from a motive of pride or discontent, refused to

accompany the fugitives; and the Gothic chief, himself

a trophy of the victory, was sent with the keys of Rome

to the throne of the emperor Justinian." • . Siege of

The first days, which coincided with the old Saturna- Sloths,

lia, were devoted to mutual congratulation and the public *ia^'h537'

joy; and the Catholics prepared to celebrate, without a

rival, the approaching festival of the nativity of Christ.

In the familiar conversation of a hero, the Romans ac­

quired some notion of the virtues which history ascribed

to their ancestors; they were edified by the apparent

d Bergier (Hist, des Grands Chemins des Romains, torn. 1. p. 221—228. 440—

444.) examines the structure and materials, while d'Anville (Analyse d'ltalie,
p. 200

—"213.) defines the geographical line.

* Of the first recovery of Rome, the year (536) iscertain, from the series of events,  
rather than from the eorrupt, or interpolated, text of Procopins: the month
(Decem­

ber) is ascertained by Evagrius; (lib. 4. c. 19.) and the day (the tenth) may
be admit­

ted on the slight evidence of Nicephorns Callislhus. (lib. 17. c. 13.) For
this accu­

rate chronology, we are indebted to the diligence and judgment of Pagi. (torn.
2. p.

550, 560.) ,

