150 DECLINE AND PALL [CHAP. XLI.

epistle was subscribed by the reluctant hand of the cap­

tive queen: but the confession of the Roman senators,

who were sent to Constantinople, revealed the truth of

her deplorable situation; and Justinian, by the voice of

a new ambassador, most powerfully interceded for her

life and liberty. Yet the secret instructions of the same

minister were adapted to serve the cruel jealousy of The­

odora, who dreaded the presence and superior charms of

a rival: he prompted, with artful and ambiguous hints,

the execution of a crime so useful to the Romans ;k re­

ceived the intelligence of her death with grief and indig­

nation, and denounced, in his master's name, immortal

war against the perfidious assassin. In Italy, as well as

in Africa, the guilt of an usurper appeared to justify the

arms of Justinian; but the forces which he prepared,

were insufficient for the subversion of a mighty king­

dom, if their feeble numbers had not been multiplied by

the name, the spirit, and the conduct of a hero. A

chosen troop of guards, who served on horseback, and

were armed with lances and bucklers, attended the person

of Belisarius: his cavalry was composed of two hundred

Huns, three hundred Moors, and four thousand confe­

derates, and the infantry consisted only of three thou­

sand Isaurians. Steering the same course as in his for­

mer expedition, the Roman consul cast anchor before

Catana in Sicily, to survey the strength of the island, and

to decide whether he should attempt the conquest, or

peaceably pursue his voyage for the African coast. He

found a fruitful land and a friendly people. Notwith­

standing: the decay of agriculture, Sicily still supplied

the granaries of Rome; the farmers were graciously ex­

empted from the oppression of their military quarters;

and the Goths, who trusted the defence of the island to

the inhabitants, had some reason to complain, that their

* Yet Procopius discredits his own evidence (Anecdot. c. 16.) by'confessinsr,  
that in his public history he had not spoken the truth. See the .'epistles
from queen

Gundelina to the empress Theodora,(Var. 10. 20, 21. 23. and observe a
suspicious

word, de persona, &c). with the elaborate Commentary of Boat. (torn. 10. n.

