CHAP. XLIV.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 337

conciled the victors and the vanquished. Like the con­

temporary philosophers, the lawyers of the age of the

Antonines disclaimed the authority of a master, and

adopted from every system the most probable doctrines.8

But their writings would have been less voluminous, had

their choice been more unanimous. The conscience of

the judge was perplexed by the number and weight of

discordant testimonies, and every sentence that his pas­

sion or interest might pronounce, was'justified by the

sanction of some venerable name. An indulgent edict

of the younger Theodosius excused him from the labour

of comparing and weighing their arguments. Five ci­

vilians, Caius, Papinian, Paul, Ulpian, and Modestinus,

were established as the oracles of jurisprudence: a ma­

jority was decisive; but if their opinions were equally

divided, a casting vote was ascribed to the superior wis­

dom of Papinian.8

When Justinian ascended the throne, the reformation Reforma-

of the Roman jurisprudence was an arduous but indis- R°°°^th*

pensable task. In the space of ten centuries, the infinitelaw ]>y

variety of laws and legal opinions had filled many thou- a. d. 527,

sand volumes, which no fortune could purchase and no &0"

capacity could digest. Books could not easily be found;

and the judges, poor in the midst of riches, were reduced

to the exercise of their illiterate discretion. The sub­

jects of the Greek provinces were ignorant of the lan­

guage that disposed of their lives and properties; and

the barbarous dialect of the Latins was imperfectly stu­

died in the academies of Berytus and Constantinople.

As an Illyrian soldier, that idiom was familiar to the in­

fancy of Justinian; his youth had been instructed by the

lessons of jurisprudence, and his imperial choice selected

1 fylascou, de Sectis, c. 8. p. 120—144. de Heriscundis, a legal term which
was

applied to these eolectic lawyers: herciscere is synonymous to dividere.

a See the Theodosian Code, lib. 1. tit. 4. with Godefroy's Commentary, tom. 1.

p. 30—35. This decree might give occasion to Jesuitical disputes like those in

the Lettres Provinciales, whether a judge was obliged to follow the opinion of
Pa­

pinian, or of a majority, against his judgment, against his conscience, &c.
Yet

a legislator might give that opinion, however false, the validity, not of
truth, but

of law.

