CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 33

exerted in the cause of innocence and humanity. Such

conspicuous merit was felt and rewarded by a discerning

prince; the dignity of Boethius was adorned with the

titles of consul and patrician, and his talents were usefully

employed in the important station of master of the

offices. Notwithstanding the equal claims of the east

and west, his two sons were created, in their tender

youth, the consuls of the same year." On the me­

morable day of their inauguration, they proceeded in

solemn pomp from their palace to the Forum, amidst the

applause of the senate and people; and their joyful father,

the true consul of Rome, after pronouncing an oration

in the praise of his royal benefactor, distributed a tri­

umphal largess in the games of the circus. Prosperous

in his fame and fortunes, in his public honours and pri­

vate alliances, in the cultivation of science and the con­

sciousness of virtue, Bpethius might have been styled

happy, if that precarious epithet could be safely applied

before the last term of the life of man.

A philosopher, liberal of his wealth and parsimonious His P«tri-

of his time, might be insensible to the common allure-° .

ments of ambition—the thirst of gold and employment.

And some credit may be due to the asseveration of Boe­

thius, that he had reluctantly obeyed the divine Plato,

who enjoins every virtuous citizen to rescue the state

from the usurpation of vice and ignorance. For the in­

tegrity of his public conduct, he appeals to the memory

of his country. His authority had restrained the pride

and oppression of the royal officers, and his eloquence

had delivered Paulianus from the dogs of the palace. He

had always pitied, and often relieved, the distress of the

provincials, whose fortunes were exhausted by public

and private rapine; and Boethius alone had courage to

oppose the tyranny of the barbarians, elated by conquest,

1 Pigi, Maratori, &c. are agreed that Boethius himself was consul in the year

510, his two sons in 522, and in 487, perhaps his father. A desire nf
ascrihing the

last of these consulships to the philosopher, had perplexed the chronology of
his life.

In his honours, alliances, children, he celebrates his. own felicity—his past
felicity,

(p. 109; 110.)

