DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

the faithful dog and the rapacious wolf, was applied by

an ambassador who received only verbal instructions

from the mouth of his illiterate prince.m The Bulga­

rians, of whatsoever species, were equally attracted by

Roman wealth: they assumed a vague dominion over

the Sclavonian name, and their rapid marches could only

be stopped by the Baltic sea, or the extreme cold and

poverty of the north. But the same race of Sclavonians

appears to have maintained, in every age, the possession

of the same countries. Their numerous tribes, however

■ distant or adverse, used one common language (it was

harsh and irregular), and were "known by the resemblance

of their form, which deviated from the swarthy Tartar,

and approached, without attaining, the lofty stature and

fair complexion of the German. Four thousand six

hundred villages" were scattered over the provinces of

Russia and Poland, and their huts were hastily built of

rough timber, in a country deficient both in stone and

iron. Erected, or rather concealed, in the depth of

forests, on the banks of rivers, or the edge of morasses,

we may not, perhaps, without flattery, compare them to

the architecture of the beaver; which they resembled in a

double issue, to the land and water, for the escape of the

savage inhabitants, an animal less cleanly, less diligent,

and less social, than that marvellous quadruped. The

fertility of the soil, rather than the labour of the natives,

supplied the rustic plenty of the Sclavonians. Their

sheep and horned cattle were large and numerous, and

the fields which they sowed with millet and panic," af­

forded, in the place of bread, a coarse and less nutritive

111 Procopiu3. (Gotli. lib. 4. c. 19.) His verbal message (he owns himself an
illi­

terate barbarian) is delivered as an epistle. The style is savage, figurative,
and

original.

11 This sum is the result of a particular list, in a curious MS. fragment of
the year

550, found in the library of Milan. The obscure geography of the times
provokes

and exercises the patience of the count de Boat. (torn. 11. p. 69—189.) The
French

minister often loses himself in a wilderness which requires a Saxon and Polish

guide. ,

"Panicum milium. See Columella, lib. 2. c. 9. p. 430. edit. Gesner. Plin.
Hist.

Nstur. 18. 84, 25. The Sarmatians made a pap of millet, mingled with mare's
milk

or blood. In tho wealth of modern husbandry, our millet feeds poultry, and not
he-

rues. See the dictionaries of ISowarc and Miller.

