CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

in which the land is barren, the waters are impure, and

the air is infectious. Curiosity and ambition no longer

attracted the nations to the capital of the world: but if

chance or necessity directed the steps of a wandering

stranger, he contemplated with horror the vacancy and

•solitude of the city, and might be tempted to ask, Where

is the senate, and where are the people? In a season of

excessive rains, the Tiber swelled above its banks, and

rushed with irresistible violence into the valleys of the

seven hills. A pestilential disease arose'from the stag­

nation of the deluge, and so rapid was the contagion,

that fourscore persons expired in an hour, in the midst

of a solemn procession, which implored the mercy of Hea­

ven." A society, in which marriage is encouraged and

industry prevails, soon repairs the accidental losses of pes­

tilence and war; but as the far greater part of the Ro­

mans was condemned to hopeless indigence and celibacy,

the depopulation was constant and visible, and thegloomy

enthusiasts might expect the approaching failure of the

human race." Yet the number of citizens still exceeded

the measure of subsistence: their precarious food was

supplied from the harvests of Sicily or Egypt; and the

frequent repetition of famine betrays the inattention of

the emperor to a distant province. The edifices of Rome

were exposed to the same ruin and decay; the mouldering

fabrics were easily overthrown by inundations, tempests,

and earthquakes, and the monks, who had occupied the

most advantageous stations, exulted in their base triumph

over the ruins of antiquity.p It is commonly believed,

that pope Gregory L attacked the temples and mutilated

n The inundation and plague were reported by a deacon, whom his hishop, Gre­

gory of Tours, had dispatched to Rome for some relics. The ingenious messenger

embellished his tale and the river with a great dragon and a train of little
serpents.

(Greg. Turon, lib. 10. c. 1.)

° Gregory of Rome (Dialog. lib. 2. c. 15.) relates a memorable prediction of
St.

Benedict. Roma a Gentilibus non exterminahitur sed tempestatibus, ooruscis
turhi-

nibus ac terrae motu in semetipsa marcescet. Such a prophecy melts into true
his­

tory, and becomes the evidence of the fact after which it was invented.

p Quia in uno so ore cum Jovis laudibus, Christi laudes hon capiunt, et quam

grave nefandumque sit episcopis canere quod nec laico religioso cpnveniat,
ipsecon^

sidera. (lib. 9. ep. 4.) The writings of Gregory himself attest his innocence
of any

classic taste or literature.

