CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 103

and a third platform, spacious and secure, was raised oft

the summit of the towers. The exterior wall appears

to have been less lofty, but more solid; and each tower

was protected by a quadrangular bulwark. A hard rocky

soil resisted the tools of the miners, and on the south­

east where the ground was more tractable, their approach

was retarded by a new work, which advanced in the

shape of a half-moon. The double and treble ditche$

were filled with a stream of water; and in the manage-,

ment of the river, the most skilful labour was employed

to supply the inhabitants, to distress the besiegers, and

to prevent the mischiefs of a natural or artificial inunda­

tion. Dara continued more than sixty years to fulfil the

wishes of its founders, and to provoke the jealousy of

the Persians, who incessantly complained, that this im­

pregnable fortress had been constructed in manifest vio­

lation of the treaty of peace between the two empires.

Between the Euxine and the Caspian, the countries of The cM-

Cholchos, Iberia, and Albania, are intersected in every iberian

direction by the branches of mount Caucasus; and the 8ates'

two principal gates, or passes, from north to south, have

been frequently confounded in the geography both of

the ancients and moderns. The name of Caspian or

Albanian gates, is properly applied to Derbend," which

occupies a short declivity between the mountains and

the sea; the city, if we give credit to local tradition, had

been founded by the Greeks; and this dangerous en-'

trance was fortified by the kings of Persia with a mole,

double walls, and doors of iron. The Iberian gates" are

formed by a narrow passage of six miles in mount Cau­

casus, which opens from the northern side of Iberia or

Georgia, into the plain that reaches to the Tanais and

1 For the city and pass of Derbend, see d'Herbelot, (Bihliot. Orient. p. 157.
291.

807.) Petite de la Croix, (Hist, de Gengiscan, lib. 4. c. 9.) Histoire
Genealogiqae

de Tatars, (tom. i. p. 120.) Olesrius, (Voyage en Perse, p. 1039—1041.) and
Cor-

■eille le Brune, (Voyages, tom. i. p. 146,147.) his view may be compared with
the

plan of Olearius, who judges the wall to be of shells and gravel hardened by
time.

1 Procopius, though with some confusion, always denominates them Caspian.

(Persic. lib. 1. c. 10.) The pass is now styled Tatartopa, the Tartar-gates.
(d'An-

ville, Geographie Ancienne, tom. 2. p. 119, 120.)

