110 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

pronounced five lessons, and composed seven hundred

lines. His sagacious mind explored the deepest questions

of morals and metaphysics, and he ventured to urge eigh­

teen arguments against the Christian doctrine of the

creation of the world. But, in the intervals of study, he

personally conversed with Pan, iEsculapius, and Miner­

va, in whose mysteries he was secretly initiated, and

whose prostrate statues he adored; in the devout per­

suasion that the philosopher, who is a citizen of the uni­

verse, should be the priest of its various deities. An

eclipse of the sun announced his approaching end; and

his life, with that of his scholar Isidore,p compiled by

two of their most learned disciples, exhibits a deplora­

ble picture of the second childhood of human reason.

hu snc- Yet the golden chain, as it was fondly styled, of the

a. d. 435 Platonic succession, continued forty-four years from the

~"°29- death of Proclus, to the edict of Justinian,q which im­

posed a perpetual silence on the schools of Athens, and

excited the grief and indignation of the few remaining

votaries of Grecian science and superstition. Seven

friends and philosophers, Diogenes and Hermias, Eula-

lius and Priscian, Damascius, Isidore, and Simplicius,

who dissented from the religion of their sovereign, em­

braced the resolution of seeking in a foreign land the

freedom which was denied in their native country. They

had heard, and they credulously believed, that the re­

public of Plato was realized in the despotic government

of Persia, and that a patriot king reigned over the hap­

piest and most virtuous of nations. They were soon as­

tonished by the natural discovery that Persia resembled

the other countries of the globe; that Chosroes, who

affected the name of a philosopher, was vain, cruel, and

ambitious; that bigotry, and a spirit of intolerance, pre-

P The life of Isidore was composed by Damascius, (apud Photiam, cod. 243. p.

1028—1076.) See the last age of the Pagao philosophers io Brncker, (ton. 2. p.

341—351.)

1 The suppression of the schools of Athens is recorded by John Malala, (tom.
i.

p. 187. sur Declo Cos. Sol.) and an anonymous Chronicle in the Vatican
library,

(apud Aleman. p. 106/)

