DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

the Persians had not been accustomed either to dread

the rigour, or to despise the weakness, of their sovereign.

The revolt of Bahram, and the conspiracy of the satraps,

were impartially punished by the revenge or justice of

the conqueror; the merits of Bindoes himself could not

purify his hand from the guilt of royal blood; and the

son of Hormouz was desirous to assert his own inno­

cence, and to vindicate the sanctity of kings. During

the vigour of the Roman power, several princes were

seated on the throne of Persia by the arms and the au­

thority of the first Caesars. But their new subjects were

soon disgusted with the vices or virtues which they had

imbibed in a foreign land; the instability of their domi­

nion gave birth to a vulgar observation, that the choice

of Rome was solicited and rejected with equal ardour by

the capricious levity of oriental slaves.5 But the glory

of Maurice was conspicuous in the long and fortunate

reign of his son and his ally. A band of a thousand Ro­

mans, who continued to guard the person of Chosroes,

proclaimed its confidence in the fidelity of the strangers;

his growing strength enabled him to dismiss his unpo­

pular aid, but he steadily professed the same gratitude

and reverence to his adopted father; and till the death of

Maurice, the peace and alliance of the two empires were

faithfully maintained. Yet the mercenary friendship of

the Roman prince had been purchased with costly and

important gifts: the strong cities of Martyropolis and

Dara were restored, and the Persarmenians became the

willing subjects of an empire, whose eastern limit was

extended, beyond the example of her former times, as

far as the banks of the Araxes and the neighbourhood of

the Caspian. A pious hope was indulged, that the church,

as well as the state, might triumph in this revolution;

but if Chosroes had sincerely listened to the Christian

■ Experimenlis cognitnm est barbaros malle Roma petere regei qaam habere.

These experiments are admirably represented in the invitation and expulsion of
Vo­

lumes, (Annal. 2.1—3.) Tiridates, (Annal. 6.32—14.) and Meherdates, (Annal.
11.

10. 12. 10—f4.) The ejo of Tacitus seems to have transpierced the camp of th*

1'arlhians and the walls of the liaraiu.

