CHAP. XU.] OF THE ROWAN EMPIRE. J 79

his lieutenant, with a disdainful smile), in return for a gift

which you no longer possess, he presents you with an

ancient province of the empire—he resigns to the Goths

the sovereignty of the British island." Belisarius reject­

ed with equal firmness and contempt the offer of a tri­

bute; but he allowed the Gothic ambassadors to seek

their fate from the mouth of Justinian himself; and con­

sented, with seeming reluctance, to a truce of three

months, from the winter solstice to the equinox of

spring. Prudence might not safely trust either the

oaths or hostages of the barbarians, but the conscious

superiority of the Roman chief was expressed in the dis­

tribution of his troops. As soon as fear or hunger com- Belisarius

pelled the Goths to evacuate Alba, Porto, and Centumr many cities

cellas, their place was instantly supplied; the garrisons of ltalj'

of Narni, Spoleto, and Perusia, were reinforced, and the

seven camps of the besiegers were gradually encompassed

with the calamities of a siege. The prayers and pilgrim­

age of Datius, bishop of Milan, were not without effect;

and he obtained one thousand Thracians and Isaurians,

to assist the revolt of Liguria against her Arian tyrant.

At the same time, John the Sanguinary,b the nephew of

Vitalian, was detached with two thousand chosen horse,

first to Alba on the Fucine lake, and afterward to the

frontiers of Picenum on the Hadriaticssea. "In that

province (said Belisarius), the Goths have deposited their

families and treasures, without a guard or the suspicion

of danger. Doubtless they will violate the truce; let

them feel your presence, before they hear of your mo­

tions. Spare the Italians; suffer not any fortified places

to remain hostile in your rear; and faithfully reserve the

spoil for an equal and common partition. It would not

be reasonable (he added, with a laugh), that whilst we

are toiling to the destruction of the drones, our more

fortunate brethren should rifle and enjoy the honey."

* Anastasios (p. 40.) has preserved this epithet of Sangninarius, which might do  
honour to a tiger.

