l66 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

under the same appellation of Goths, vtes insensibly

formed in the camp of Totila. He sincerely accomplished

the articles of capitulation, without seeking or accepting

any sinister advantage from ambiguous expressions or

unforeseen events: the garrison of Naples had stipulated,

that they should be transported by sea; the obstinacy of

the winds prevented their voyage, but they were gener­

ously supplied with horses, provisions, and a safe con­

duct to the gates of Rome. The wives of the senators,

who had been surprised in the villas of Campania, were

restored, without a ransom, to their husbands; the vio­

lation of female chastity was inexorably chastised with

death; and, in the salutary regulation of the diet of the

famished Neapolitans, the conqueror assumed the office

of a humane and attentive physician. The virtues of

Totila are equally laudable, whether they proceeded from

true policy, religious principle, or the instinct of huma­

nity: he often harangued his troops; and it was his

constant theme, that national vice and ruin are insepara­

bly connected: that victory is the fruit of moral as well

as military virtue; and that the prince, and even the

people, are responsible for the crimes which they neglect

to punish.

Second The return of Belisarius, to save the country which he

of Beiisa- had subdued, was pressed with equal vehemence by his

itaiy!" friends and enemies; and the Gothic war was imposed

a. D.544 a3 a trust or an exile on the veteran commander. A

—548.

hero on the banks of the Euphrates, a slave in the pa­

lace of Constantinople, he accepted, with reluctance, the

painful task of supporting his own reputation, and re­

trieving the faults of his successors. The sea was open

to the Romans.; the ships and soldiers were assembled

at Salona, near the palace of Diocletian: he refreshed

and reviewed his troops at Pola in Istria, coasted round

the head of the Hadriatic, entered the port of Ravenna,

and dispatched orders rather than supplies to the subor­

dinate cities. His first public oration was addressed to'

