DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

voyages to the Persian Gulf, or the Cape of Good Hope:

but their ancestors might equal the labours and success

of the present race, and the sphere of their navigation

might extend from the isles of Japan to the straits of

Malacca, the pillars, if we may apply that name, of an

Oriental Hercules." Without losing sight of land, they

might sail along the coast to the extreme promontory of

Achin, which is annually visited by ten or twelve ships

laden with the productions, the manufactures, and even

the artificers, of China ;' the island of Sumatra and the

opposite peninsula, are faintly delineatedb as the regions

of gold and silver; and the trading cities named in the

geography of Ptolemy, may indicate, that this wealth

was not solely derived from the mines. The direct in­

terval between Sumatra and Ceylon is about three hun­

dred leagues; the Chinese and Indian navigators were

conducted by the flight of birds and periodical winds,

and the ocean might be securely traversed in square-

built ships, which, instead of iron, were sewed together

with the strong thread of the cocoa-nut. Ceylon, Se-

rendib, or Taprobana, was divided between two hostile,

princes;, one of whom possessed the mountains, the

elephants, and the luminous carbuncle, and the other

enjoyed the more solid riches of domestic industry, fo­

reign trade, and the capacious harbour of Trinquemale,

which received and dismissed the fleets of the east and

west. In this hospitable isle, at an equal distance (as it

was computed) from their respective countries, the silk

merchants of China, who had collected in their voyages,

aloes, cloves, nutmeg, andsantal wood, maintained a free

* For the Chinese navigation to Malacoa and Achin, perhaps to Ceylon, see Re-  
naudot, (on the two Mahometan Travellers, p. 8—11. 13—17. 141—1.57.) Dampier,

(vol. 2. p. 136.) the Hist. Philosophique des deux Indes, (lom. 1. p. 98,) and
the

Hist. Generates des Voyages, (tom. 6. p. 201.)

b The knowledge, or rather ignorance, of Strabo, Pliny, Ptolemy, Arrian,
Marcian,

&c. of the countries eastward of Cape Cnmorin, is finely illustrated by
d'Anville

(Antiquitd Geographique de I'lnde, especially p. 161—198.) Our geograpby of

India is improved by commerce and conquest ; and has been illustrated by the
excel­

lent maps and memoirs of Major Rennel. If he extends the sphere of his
inquiries

with the same critical knowledge and sagacity, he will succeed, aud may
surpass, the

first of modern geographers.

