chap. xlit/J of the soman empire. 323

years, that the decrees of the senate obtained the fotco

and validity of laws. In the times of freedom, the re­

solves of the people had often been dictated by the pas­

sion or error of the moment: the Cornelian, Pompeian,

and Julian laws, were adapted by a single hand to the

prevailing disorders: but the senate, under the reign of

the Caesars, was composed of magistrates and lawyers,

and in questions of private jurisprudence, the integrity

of their judgment was seldom perverted by fear or inte­

rest.'

The silence or ambiguity of the laws was supplied by Edicts o«

the occasional edicts of those magistrates who were ifr* P****"

vested with the honours of the state." This ancient pre­

rogative of the Roman kings was transferred, in their re­

spective offices, to the consuls and dictators, the censors

and prastors; and a similar right was assumed by the tri*

bunes of the people, the ediles, and the proconsuls; At

Rome, and in the provinces, the duties of the subject,

and the intentions of the governor, were proclaimed; and

the civil jurisprudence was reformed by the annual edicts

of the supreme judge, the praetor of the city. As soon

as he ascended his tribunal, he announced by the voice »

of the crier, and afterward inscribed on a white wall, the

rules which he proposed to follow in the decision of

doubtful cases, and the relief which his equity would

afford from the precise rigour of ancient statutes. A

principle of discretion more congenial to monarchy Was

introduced into the republic: the art of respecting the

name, and eluding the efficacy, of the laws, was improv­

ed by successive praetors; subtleties and fictions were

invented to defeat the plainest meaning of the decemvirs,

and where the end was salutary,tbe means were frequent-

1 Non amhigitur senatam jus facere posse, is the decision of Ulpian. (lib. 16.
ad

Edict. in Pandect, lib. 1. tit. 3. leg. 9.) Pomponins taxes the comitia of the
people

as a tarha hominom. (Pandect, lib. i. tit. 2. leg. 9.)

k The jus honorarium of the praetors and other magistrates is striotly defmed
in

the Latin text of the Institutes, (lib. 1. tit. 2. no. 7.) and more loosely
explained in

the Greek paraphrase of Theophilos, (p. 33—38. edit. Keitz.) who drops the
import­

ant word honorarium.

