54 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL,

Acacius might be satiated with love, yet some applause

is clue to the firmness of a mind which could sacrifice

pleasure and habit to the stronger sense either of duty or

interest. The wishes and prayers of Theodora could

never obtain the blessing of a lawful son, and she buried

an infant daughter, the sole offspring of her marriage.0

Notwithstanding this disappointment, her dominion was

permanent and absolute; she preserved, by art or merit, %

the affections of Justinian; and their seeming dissen­

sions were always fatal to the courtiers who believed

them to be sincere. Perhaps her health had been im­

paired by the licentiousness of her youth; but it was al­

ways delicate, and she was directed by her physicians to

use the Pythian warm baths. In this journey, the em­

press was followed by the praetorian prefect, the great

treasurer, several counts and patricians, and a splendid

train of four thousand attendants: the highways were

repaired at her approach; a palace was erected for her

reception: and as she passed through Bithynia, she

distributed liberal alms to the churches," the monas­

teries, and the hospitals, that they might implore hea-

■nd death, ven for the restoration of her health." At length,

June 11. ' in the twenty-fourth year of her marriage, and the

twenty-second of her reign, she was consumed by a

cancer ;q and the irreparable loss was deplored by her hus­

band, who, in the room of a theatrical prostitute, might

have selected the purest and most noble virgin of the east/

Thefac- JT, A. material difference may be observed in the

tionsofthe - . , . - , ,

circus games of antiquity; the most eminent of the Greeks

° St. Sabas refused to pray for a son of Theodora, lest he should prove a
heretic

worse than Anastasius himself. (Cyril in Vit. St. Saba?, apud Alemaii. p. 70.
109.)

P See John Malala, torn. 2. p. 174, Thcophanes, p. 158. Prooopius de Editie.

lib. 5. c. 3.

1 Theodora Chalccdonensis synod! inimica canceris ping! tolo corpore perfusa

vitam prodigiose finivit. (Victor Tununensis .in Chron.) .On such occasions,
an or­

thodox mind is steeled against pity. Alemannus (p. 12,13.) understands the
liwi#»{

iKoi/xnDn of Thcophanes as civil language, which does not imply either piety
or re­

pentance; yet two years after her death, St. Theodora is celebrated by Paul
Silen-

tiarius. (in Proem, 5. 58—62.)

r As she persecuted the popes, and rejected a conncil, Bnronins exhausts the

names of Eve, Dalila, Herpdias, &c. after which he has recourse to his
infernal

dictionary ; civis inferni—alumna d.-emonum—satanico agitata spiritft—srstro
percita.

diabolico, &c. &c. (A. D. 548. uo. 24.)

