482 DECLINE AND VALL [CHAP. XLVI.

employ in the service of religion and of the empire. The

clergy themselves appear to have sympathized with the

public distress, and the discreet patriarch of Alexandria,

without admitting the precedent of sacrilege, assisted his

sovereign by the miraculous or seasonable revelation of

a secret treasure.* Of the soldiers who had conspired

with Phocas, only two were found to have survived the

stroke of time and of the barbarians ;h the loss, even of

these seditious veterans, was imperfectly supplied by the

new levies of Heraclius, and the gold of the sanctuary

united in the same camp, the names, and arms, and lan­

guages, of the east and west. He would have been con­

tent with the neutrality of the Avars; and his friendly

entreaty that the chagan would act, not as the enemy but

as the guardian of the empire, was accompanied with a

more persuasive donative of two hundred thousand pieces

of gold. Two days after the festival of Easter, the em­

peror, exchanging his purple for the simple garb of a

penitent and warrior,' gave the signal of his departure.

To the faith of the people Heraclius recommended his

children; the civil and military powers were vested in the

most deserving hands, and the discretion of the patri­

arch and senate was authorised to save or surrender the

city, if they should be oppressed in his absence by the su­

perior forces of the enemy.

dit7on"fPe" ^e neighbouring heights of Chalcedon were covered

Heraciins with tents and arms: but if the new levies of Heraclius

Persians, * had been rashly led to the attack, the victory of the Per­

sians in the sight of Constantinople might have been the

last day of the Roman empire. As imprudent would it

B Baronius gravely relates this discovery, or rather transmutation, of
harrels, not

of honey, but of gold. (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 620. no. 3, &c.) Yet the loan was
ar­

hitrary, since it was collected by soldiers, who were ordered to leave the
patriarch

of Alexandria no more than one hundred pounds of gold. Nicephorus, (p. 11.)
two

hundred years afterward, speaks with ill humour of this contribution, which
the

church of Constantinoplo might still feel. J

h Theophylact, Simocatta, lib. 8. c. 12. This circumstance need not excite onr

surprise. The moster-roll of a regiment, even in time of peace, is renewed in
less

than twenty or twenty-five years.

1 He changed his purple, for black buskins, and died them red in the blood of
tbs

Persians. (Georj. Pisid. Acroas. 3. 118. 12 J , 122. See the Notes of Foggini,
p. 35.)

A. D. 622.

