4/0 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

the African navy cast anchor in the Hellespont. Their

standard was joined at Abidus by the fugitives and exiles

who thirsted for revenge; the ships of Heraclius, whose

lofty masts were adorned with the holy symbols of reli­

gion,8 steered their triumphant course through the Pro-

pontis; and Phocas beheld from the windows of the pa­

lace, his approaching and inevitable fate. The green

faction was tempted by gifts and promises, to oppose a

feeble and fruitless resistance to the landing of the Afri­

cans; but the people, and even the guards, were deter­

mined by the well-timed defection of Crispus; and the

tyrant was seized by a private enemy, who boldly invaded

the solitude of the palace. Stripped of the diadem and

purple, clothed in a vile habit, and loaded with chains, he

was transported in a small boat to the imperial galley of

Heraclius, who reproached him with the crimes of his

abominable reign. "Wilt thou govern better?" were

the last words of the despair of Phocas. After suffering

each variety of insult and torture, his head was severed

from his body, the mangled trunk was cast into the

flames, and the same treatment was inflicted on the sta­

tues of the vain usurper, and the seditious banner of the

green faction. The voice of the clergy, the senate, and

the people, invited Heraclius to ascend the throne which

he had purified from guilt and ignominy; after some

Reign of graceful hesitation he yielded to their entreaties. His

a.'d! 6io, coronation was accompanied by that of his wife Eudoxia;

a" d56« anc^ their posterity, till the fourth generation, continued

Feb. 11. to reign over the empire of the east. The voyage of

Heraclius had been easy and prosperous, the tedious

march of Nicetas was not accomplished before the

decision of the contest: but he submitted without a

murmur to the fortune of his friend, and his laudable

intentions were rewarded with an equestrian statue, and

% According to Theophanes tu@»rria and ftxova dcojuijrffof. Cedrenas adds an

aprEippn-ottiTov Eucora rov xvpov, whicli Heraclias bore as a banner in the
first Persian

expedition. See George Pisid. Acroas I. 140. The manufacture seems to have

flourished; hut Foggiui, the Roman editor,(p. 26.) is at a loss to determine
whether

this picture was an original or a copy.

