CHAP. XLVI.] OF, THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 465

rather than in a future life. After the abdication of

Maurice, the two factions disputed the choice of an em­

peror; but the favourite of the blues was rejected by the

jealousy of their antagonists, and Germanus himself was

hurried along by the crowds, who rushed to the palace

of Hebdomon, seven miles from the city, to adore the *

majesty of Phocas the centurion. A modest wish of

resigning the purple to the rank and merit of Germanus

was opposed by his resolution, more obstinate and equally

sincere: the senate and clergy obeyed his summons,

and as soon as the patriarch was assured of his orthodox

belief, lie consecrated the successful usurper in the church

of St. John the Baptist. On the third day, amidst the

acclamations of a thoughtless people, Phocas made his

public entry in a chariot drawn by four white horses;

the revolt of the troops was rewarded by a lavish dona­

tive, and the new sovereign, after visiting the palace,

beheld from his throne the'games of the hippodrome.

In a dispute of precedency between the two factions,

his partial judgment inclined in favour of the greens. -

"Remember that Maurice is still alive," resounded

from the opposite side; and the indiscreet clamour of

the blues admonished and stimulated the cruelty of, the

tyrant. The ministers of death were dispatched to Chal-

cedon: they dragged the emperor from his sanctuary;

and the five sons of Maurice were successively murdered

before the eyes of their agonizing parent. At each

stroke which he felt in his heart, he found strength to

rehearse a pious ejaculation,—" Thou art just, O Lord! Death of

and thy judgments are righteous." And such, in the BndTi»e

last moments, was his rigid attachment to truth and aI'd^os

justice, that he revealed to the soldiers the pious false- NoT- *7-

hood of a nurse who presented her own child in the

place of a royal infant.2 The tragic scene was finally

* From this generous attempt, Corneille has deduced the intricate web of his tra­  
gedy of Heraclius, which requires more than one representation to be clearly
under­

stood; (Corneille de Voltaire, tom. 5. p. 300.) and which, after an interval
of some

years, is said to hare puzzled the author himself. (Anecdotes Dramatiuues,
tom. 1.

p. 422.)

