DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP". Ht.iV.

preference; but as the order of Justinian is different in

his three works, it is possible that all may be wrong ; and

it is certain that two cannot be right. In the selection

of ancient laws, he seems to have viewed his predeces­

sors without jealousy, and with equal regard: the series

could not ascend above the reign of Hadrian, and the

narrow distinction of Paganism and Christianity, intro­

duced by the superstition of Theodosius, had been abo^

lished by the consent of mankind. But the jurispru­

dence of the pandects is circumscribed within a period

of a hundred years, from the perpetual edict to the death

of Severus Alexander: the civilians who lived under the

first Caesars, are seldom permitted to speak, and only

three names can be attributed to the age of the republic-

The favourite of Justinian (it has been fiercely urged)

was fearful of encountering the light of freedom and the

gravity of Roman sages. Tribonian condemned to ob­

livion the genuine and native wisdom of Cato, the Scse-

volas, and Sulpicius; while he invoked spirits more con­

genial to his own, the Syrians, Greeks, and Africans^

who flocked to the imperial court to study Latin as a

foreign tongue, and jurisprudence as a lucrative profes­

sion. But the ministers of Justinian' were instructed to

labour, not for the curiosity of antiquarians, but for the

immediate benefit of his subjects. It was their duty to

select the useful and practical parts of the Roman law;

and the writings of the old republicans, however curious

or excellent, were no longer suited to the new system

of manners, religion, and government. Perhaps, if the

preceptors and friends of Cicero were still alive, our can­

dour would acknowledge, that, except in purity of lan­

guage,11 their intrinsic merit was excelled by the school;

'An ingenious and learned oration of Schullingius (Jurisprudentia Ante-
Justinia-

nea, p. 883—907.) justifies the choice of Tribouian, against the passionate
charges of

Francis Huttoman and his sectaries.

k Strip away the crust of Tribonian, and allow for the use of technical words,
and

the Latin of the Pandects will be found not unworthyof the silver age. It has
been 1

vehemently attacked by Laurentius Valla, a fastidious grammarian of the
fifteenth

century, and by his apologist Floridus Sabinus. It has been defended by Alciat
and

a nameless advocate most probably James Capellus). Their various treatises are

