264 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIH.

were successively intercepted by the armed vessels sta-

'"', tioned by Totila in the bay of Naples. The principal

officer of the Romans was dragged, with a rope round

his neck, to the foot of the wall, from whence, with a

trembling voice, he exhorted the citizens to implore, like

himself, the mercy of the conqueror. They requested

a truce, with a promise of surrendering the city, if no ef­

fectual relief should appear at the end of thirty days. In­

stead of one month, the audacious barbarian granted

tiiem three, in the just confidence that famine would an­

ticipate the term of their capitulation. After the re­

duction of Naples and Cumae, the provinces of Lucania,

Apulia, and Calabria, submitted to the king of the

Goths. Totila led his army to the gates of Rome,

pitched his camp at Tibur, or Tivoli, within twenty

miles of the capital, and calmly exhorted the senate and

people to compare the tyranny of the Greeks with the

blessings of the Gothic reign.

Contrast of The rapid success of Totila may be partly ascribed to

»!rtue"d *ne revolution which three years' experience had pro­

duced in the sentiments of the Italians. At the command,

or at least in the name, of a Catholic emperor, the pope,g

their spiritual father, had been torn from the Roman

church, and either starved or murdered on a desolate

island.*1 The virtues of Belisarius were replaced by the

various or uniform vices of eleven chiefs, at Rome, Ra­

venna, Florence, Perugia, Spoleto, &c. who abused their

authority for the indulgence of lust or avarice. The

improvement of the revenue was committed to Aiexan-

der, a subtle scribe, long practised in the fraud and op­

pression of the Byzantine schools; and whose name of

Psalliction, the scissors,' was drawn from the dexterous

K Sylrerins, hishop of Rome, was first transported to Patara, in Lycia, and at

length starred (sub eorum custodia inedia confeotas) in the isle of Palmaria,
A. D.

538, June 20. (Liberat. in Breviar. c. 22. Anastasius in Sylverio. Baronius,
A. D.

540. no. 2, 3. Pagi in Vit. Pont. tom. 1. p. 285, 286.) Procopius (Anecdut. o.
1.)

accuses only the empress and Antonina.

b Palmaria, a small island, opposite to Tarracina and the coast of the Volsci.
(Clu-

ver. rtal. Antiq. lib. 3. c. 7. p. 1014.)

'As the Logothete Alexander, and most of his civil and military colleagues,
were

