312 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. JCLlllw

less susceptible than the male; but every rank and pro­

fession was attacked with indiscriminate rage, and many

of those who escaped were deprived of the use of their

, speech, without being secure from a return of the disor­

der/ The physicians of Constantinople were zealous

and skilful: but their art was baffled by the various

symptoms and pertinacious vehemence of the disease:

the same remedies were productive of contrary effects,

and the event capriciously disappointed their prognostics

of death or recovery. The order of funerals, and the

right of sepulchres, were confounded; those who were

left without friends or servants, lay unburied in the

Streets, or in their desolate houses; and a magistrate

was authorized to collect the promiscuous heaps of dead

bodies, to transport them by land or water, and to inter

them in deep pits beyond the precincts of the city. Their

own danger, and the prospects of public distress, awaken­

ed some remorse in the minds of the most vicious of man­

kind; the confidence of health again revived their pas­

sions and habits; but philosophy must disdain the ob­

servation of Procopius, that the lives of such men were

guarded by the peculiar favour of fortune or providence.

He forgot, or perhaps he secretly recollected, that the

plague had touched the person of Justinian himself; but

the abstemious diet of the emperor may suggest, as in

the case of Socrates, a more rational and honourable

cause for his recovery.2 During his sickness, the public

consternation was expressed in the habits of the citizens;

and their idleness and despondence occasioned a general

scarcity in the capital of the east.

Extent and Contagion is the inseparable symptom of the plague;

duration. * (

A. T). ft. 2 y Thacydides (c. 51.) affirms that the infection conld only be
onoe taken j but

594. Evagrius, who had family-experience of the plague, observes, that some
persons, who

had escaped the first, sank under the second attack; and this repetition is
confirmed

by Fabius Paallintts. (p. 588.) I observe that on this head physicians are
divided:

and the nature and operation of the disease may not always be similar.

z It was thus that Socrates had been saved by his temperance, in the plague of

Athens. (Anl. Gellias, Noct. Attic. 2. 1.) Dr. Mead accounts for the peculiar
sa­

lubrity of religious houses, by the two advantages of seclusion and
abstinence, (p.

18, 19.)

