CHAP. XLIIIi] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the Goths and Romans in the name of the emperor, who

had suspended for awhile the conquest of Persia, and

listened to the prayers of his Italian subjects. He gently

touched on the causes and the authors of the recent dis­

asters; striving to remove the fear of punishment for

the past, and the hope of impunity for the future, and

labouring, with more zeal than success, to unite all the

members of his government in a firm league of affection

and obedience. Justinian, his gracious master, was in­

clined to pardon and reward; and it was their interest, as

well as duty, to reclaim their deluded brethren, who had

been seduced by the arts of the usurper. Not a man was

tempted to desert the standard of the Gothic king. Be­

lisarius soon discovered, that he was sent to remain the

idle and impotent spectator of the glory of a young Bar­

barian; and his own epistle exhibits a genuine and lively

picture of the distress of a noble mind.'—" Most excel­

lent prince; we are arrived in Italy, destitute of all the

necessary implements of war, men, horses, arms, and

money. In our late circuit through the villages of

Thrace and Illyricum, we have collected, with extreme

difficulty, about four thousand recruits, naked, and un­

skilled in the use of weapons and the exercises of the

camp. The soldiers already stationed in the province

are discontented, fearful, and dismayed; at the sound of

an enemy, they dismiss their horses, and cast their arms

on the ground. No taxes can be raised, since Italy is in

the hands of the barbarians; the failure of payment has

deprived us of the right of command, or even of admo­

nition. Be assured, dread sir, that the greater part of

your troops have already deserted to the Goths. If the

war could be achieved by the presence of Belisarius

alone, your wishes are satisfied; Belisarius is in the midst

of Italy. But if you desire to conquer, far other prepa­

rations are requisite: without a military force, the title

of general is an empty name. It would be expedient to

restore to my service my own veterans and domestic

t 2

