190 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

them for betraying their dominion and freedom to these

pigmies of the south, contemptible in their numbers, di­

minutive in their stature. Before the Goths could re­

cover from the first surprise, and claim the accomplish­

ment of their doubtful hopes, the victor established his

power in Ravenna, beyond the danger of repentance

Captivity and revolt. Vitiges, who perhaps had attempted to es-

1 >ges' cape, was honourably guarded in his palace ;r the flower

of the Gothic youth was selected for the service of the

emperor; the remainder of the people was dismissed to

their peaceful habitations in the southern provinces;

and a colony of Italians was invited to replenish the depo­

pulated city. The submission of the capital was imitated

in the towns and villages of Italy, which had not been

subdued, or even visited, by the Romans; and the in­

dependent Goths, who, remained in arms at Pavia and

Verona, were ambitious only to become the subjects of

Belisarius. But his inflexible loyalty rejected, except as

the substitute of Justinian, their oaths of allegiance;

and he was not offended by the reproach of their de­

puties, that he rather chose to be a slave than a king.

gio'^of1"1 After the second victory of Belisarius, envy again

Belisarius. whispered, Justinian listened, and the hero was recalled.

"The remnant of the Gothic war was no longer worthy

of his presence: a gracious sovereign was impatient to

reward his services, and to consult his wisdom: and he

alone was capable of defending the east against the innu­

merable armies of Persia." Belisarius understood the

suspicion, accepted the excuse, embarked at Ravenna

his spoils and trophies; and proved, by his ready obedi­

ence, that such an abrupt removal from the government

of Italy was not less unjust than it might have been in­

discreet. The emperor received, with honourable cour-

r He was seized by John the Sanguinary, but an oath or sacrament was pledged

for his safety in the Basilica Julii. (Hist. Miscefl. lib. 17. in Mnratori,
torn. 1. p.

107.) Anastasius (in Vit. Pont. p. 40.) gives a dark but probable account.
Mont-

fancon is quoted by Mascou (Hist, of the Germans, 12. 21.) for a votive shield

representing the captivity of Vitiges, and now in the collection of Signer
Landi at

Rome.

