CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 451

guilty and the suspected, served to irritate rather than

subdue the public discontent. No sooner did the grand­

son of Nushirvan display his own and the Roman banners

beyond the Tigris, than he was joined, each day, by the

increasing multitudes of the nobility and people; and as

he advanced, he received from every side the grateful of­

ferings of the keys of his cities and the heads of his ene­

mies. As soon as Modain was freed from the presence

of the usurper, the loyal inhabitants obeyed the first

summons of Mebodes at the head of only two thousand

horse, and Chosroes accepted the sacred and precious or­

naments of the palace as the pledge of their truth and a

presage of his approaching success. After the junction

Of the imperial troops, which Bahram vainly struggled to

prevent, the contest was decided by two battles on the

banks of the Zab, and the confines of Media. The Ro- a?d final

Tietorj.

mans, with the faithful subjects of Persia, amounted to

sixty thousand, while the whole force of the usurper did

not exceed forty thousand men: the two generals signa­

lized their valour and ability, but the victory was finally

determined by the prevalence of numbers and discipline.

With the remnant of a broken army, Bahram fled to­

wards the eastern provinces of the Oxus: the enmity of Dea"> «f

Persia reconciled him to the Turks; but his days were

shortened by poison, perhaps the most incurable of poi­

sons; the stings of remorse and despair, and the bitter

remembrance of lost glory. Yet the modern Persians

still commemorate the exploits of Bahram; and some

excellent laws have prolonged the duration of his trou­

bled and transitory reign.

The restoration of Chosroes was celebrated with feasts Restora-

and executions ; and the music of the royal banquet was p","™

often disturbed by the groans of dying or mutilated cri- ^h ^'"^

minals. A general pardon might have diffused comfort —603.

and tranquillity through a country which had been shaken

by the the late revolutions; yet, before the sanguinary

temper of Chosroes is blamed, we should learn whether

