DECLINE AND KALI* [CHAP. XLIVI

dox or innovations. The freedom of Labeo was en­

slaved, however, by the rigour of his own conclusions, and

he decided according to the letter of the law, the same

questions which his indulgent competitor resolved with

a latitude of equity more suitable to the common sense

and feelings of mankind. If a fair exchange had been

substituted to the payment of money, Capito still consi­

dered the transaction as a legal sale and he consulted

nature for the age of puberty, without confining his defi­

nition to the precise period of twelve or fourteen years.1

This opposition of sentiments was propagated in the

writings and lessons of the two founders; the schools

of Capito and Labeo maintained their inveterate conflict

from the age of Augustus to that of Hadrian ;u and the

two sects derived their appellations from Sabinus and

Proculus, their most celebrated teachers. The names

of Cassians and Pegasians were likewise applied to the

same parties; but, by a strange reverse, the popular

cause was in the hands of Pegasus," a timid slave of Do-

mitian, while the favourite of the Caesars was represent­

ed by Cassius/ who gloried in his descent from the pa­

triot assassin. By the perpetual edict, the controversies

of the sects were in a great measure determined. For

that important work, the emperor Hadrian preferred the

chief of the Sabinians; the friends of monarchy prevail

ed; but the moderation of Salvius Julian insensibly re-

• Justinian (Institul. lib. 3. tit. 23. and Theophil. Vers. Grace, p. 677,
68a) bu

commemorated this weighty dispute, and the verses of Homer that were alleged
on

either side as legal authorities. It was decided by Paul, (leg. 33. ad Edict,
in Pan­

dect, lib. 18. tit. 1. leg. 1.) since, in a simple exchange, the buyer could
not be discri­

minated from the seller.

! This controversy was likewise given for the Proculians, to supersede the
inde­

cency of a search, and to comply with the aphorism of Hippocrates, who was at­

tached to the septenary number of two weeks of years, or seven hundred of
days,

(lnstitot. lib. 1. tit. 22.) Plutarch and the stoics, (de Placit. Philosoph.
lib. 5- c.

24.) assign a more natural reason. Fourteen 3 ears is the age—wt(t m i
oTrejjuaTixcc

xpiw-rai opfoc. See the vestigia of the sects in Mascot), c. 9. p. 145—276.

"The series and conclusion of the sects are described by Mascou, (c. 2—7. p,

24—120.) and it would be almost ridiculous to praise his equal justice to
these obso­

lete sects.

31 At the first summons he flies to the turbot council; yet Juvenal (Sat. 4.
75—81.)

styles the prefect or bailiff of Rome sanctissimns legum interpres. From his
science,

says the old scholiast, he was called, not a man, but a book. He derived the
singu­

lar name of Pegasus from the galley which his father commanded.

y Tacit. Annal. 17. 7. Sueton. in Neronc, c. 37.

