468 DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. XLVI,

were decently confined to a private house. But the spi­

rit of the empress Constantina, still mindful of her fa­

ther, her husband, and her sons, aspired to freedom and

revenge. At the dead of night, she escaped to the sanc­

tuary of St. Sophia; but her tears, and the gold of her

associate Germanus, were insufficient to provoke an in­

surrection. Her life was forfeited to revenge, and even

to justice: but the patriarch obtained and pledged an

oath for her safety; a monastery was allotted for her

prison, and the widow of Maurice accepted and abused

the lenity of his assassin. The discovery or the suspi­

cion of a second conspiracy, dissolved the engagements

and rekindled the fury of Phocas. A matron who com­

manded the respect and pity of mankind, the daughter,

wife, and mother of emperors, was tortured like the

vilest malefactor, to force a confession of her designs and

and iyran- associates; and the empress Constantina with her three

innocent daughters, was beheaded at Chalcedon, on the

same ground which had been stained with the blood of

her husband and five sons. After such an example, it

would be superfluous to enumerate the names and suf­

ferings of meaner victims. Their condemnation was

seldom preceded by the forms of trial, and their punish­

ment was embittered by the refinements of cruelty : their

eyes were pierced, their tongues were torn from the root,

the hands and feet were amputated; some expired un­

der the lash, others in the flames, others again were

transfixed with arrows; and a simple speedy death was

mercy which they could rarely obtain. The hippodrome,

the sacred asylum of the pleasures and the liberty of

the Romans, was polluted with heads and limbs and man­

gled bodies; and the companions of Phocas were the

most sensible, that neither his favour, nor their services,

could protect them from tyrant, the worthy rival of the

Caligulas and Domitians of the first age of the empire.'

e Some of the cruelties of Phocas are marked by Tueoph;lact, lib. 8. c. 13—15.

George of Pisidia, the poet of Ilcraclius, styles him (Bell. Avaricum, p. i6.
Roma,

