400 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

The um- When a public quarrel is envenomed by private iniu-

hards and . , . f • , , • • . i •

Avars <ie- nes,a blow that is not mortal or decisive can be productive

k'ngViId onty of a short truce, which allows the unsuccessful com-

ki*gdom batant to sharpen his arms for a new encounter. The

of the Ge- r

A dD 5C6 strenStn o^ Alboin had been found unequal to the grati-

'fication of his love, ambition, and revenge: he conde­

scended to implore the formidable aid of the chagan;

and the arguments that he employed are expressive of the

art and policy of the barbarians. In the attack of the

Gepidas, he had been prompted by the just desire of ex­

tirpating a people, whom their alliance with the Roman

empire had rendered the common enemies of the nations,

and the personal adversaries of the chagan. If the forces

of the Avars and the Lombards should unite in this

glorious quarrel, the victory was secure, and the reward

inestimable: the Danube, the Hebrus, Italy, and Con­

stantinople, would be exposed, without a barrier, to their

invincible arms. But if they hesitated or delayed to pre­

vent the malice of the Romans, the same spirit which

had insulted, would pursue the Avars to the extremity

of the earth. These specious reasons were heard by the

chagan with coldness and disdain: he detained the Lom­

bard ambassadors in his camp, protracted the negotiation,

and by turns alleged his want of inclination, or his want

of ability, to undertake this important enterprise. At

length he signified the ultimate price of his alliance, that

the Lombards should immediately present him with the

tithe of their cattle; that the spoils and captives should

be equally divided; but that the lands of the Gepidae

should become the sole patrimony of the Avars. Such

hard conditions were eagerly accepted by the passions of

Alboin; and as the Romans were dissatisfied with the

ingratitude and perfidy of the Gepidae, Justin abandoned

that incorrigible people to their fate, and remained the

tranquil spectator of this unequal conflict. The despair

of Cunimund was active and dangerous. He was inform­

ed that the Avars had entered his confines; but on the

