214 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL1L,

pelled the Turkish monarch to establish three subordi­

nate princes of his own blood, who soon forgot their

gratitude and allegiance. The conquerors were ener­

vated by luxury, which is always fatal except to an indus­

trious people; the policy of China solicited the vanquish­

ed nations to resume their independence; and the power

of the Turks was limited to a period of two hundred

years. The revival of their name and dominion in the

southern countries of Asia, are the events of a later age;

and the dynasties, which succeeded to their native realms,

may sleep in oblivion; since their history bears no rela­

tion to the decline and fall of the Roman empire.15

The Avars In the rapid career of conquest, the Turks attacked

theTork*, and subdued the nation of the Ogors or Varchonites oft

P^ach the *ne banks of the river Til, which derived the epithet of

empire. black from its dark water or gloomy forests.11 The khan

of the Ogors was slain with three hundred thousand of

his subjects, and their bodies were scattered over the

space of four days' journey ; their surviving countrymen

acknowledged the strength and mercy of the Turks; and

a small portion, about twenty thousand warriors, prefer­

red exile to servitude. They followed the well-known

road of the Volga, cherished the error of the nations

who confounded them with the Avars, and spread the

terror of that false though famous appellation, which

had not, however, saved its lawful proprietors from the

yoke of the Turks.' After a long and victorious march,

the new Avars arrived at the foot of mount Caucasus,

It For the origin and revolutions of the first Turkish empire, the Chinese
details

are borrowed from De Guignes, (Hist. des Hons, tom. 1. p. 2. p. 367—462.) and

Visdelou (Supplement a la Bibliotheque Orient. d'Herbelot, p. 82—114.) The

Greek or Roman hints are gathered in Menander, (p. 108—164.) and Theopbylact

Simocatta. (lib. 7. c. 7, 8.)

h The river Til, or Tola, according lo the geograpby of De Guignes, (tom. 1.
part

2. p. 58. and 352.) is a small though grateful stream of the desert, that
falls into the

Orbon, Selinga, &c. See Bell, Journey from Petersburgh to Pekin ; (vol. 2. p.
124.)

yet his own description of the Keat, down which he sailed into the Oby,
represents

the name and attributes of the black river, (p. 139.)

'Theopbylact, lib. 7. c. 7, 8. And yet his true Avars are invisible even to
the

eyes of M. da Guignes; and what can he more illustrious than the/a(se? 'The
right

«f the fugitive Ogors to that national appellation is confessed by the Turks
themselves,

(Menander, p. 108.)

