CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 71

and beneficial commerce with the inhabitants of the

Persian Gulf. The subjects of the great king exalted,

without a rival, his power and magnificence; and the

Roman, who confounded their vanity by comparing his

paltry coin with a gold medal of the emperor Anastasius,

had sailed to Ceylon in an Ethiopian ship, as a simple

passenger.0

As silk became of indispensable use, the emperor intmduc-

T.. .. r . . t> • 11 Uun ofsilk-

Justinian saw, with concern, that the Persians had oc-wo,msinu>

cupied by land and sea the monopoly of this importantGreece"

supply, and that the wealth of his subjects was continu­

ally drained by a nation of enemies and idolaters. An

active government would have restored the trade of

Egypt and the navigation of the Red sea, which had de­

cayed with the prosperity of the empire; and the Roman

vessels might have sailed, for the purchase of silk, to

the ports of Ceylon, of Malacca, or even of China. Jus­

tinian embraced a more humble expedient, and solicited

the aid of his Christian allies, the ^Ethiopians of Abys­

sinia, who had recently acquired the arts of navigation,

the spirit of trade, and the sea-port of Adulis,d still de­

corated with the trophies of a Grecian conqueror. Along

the African coast, they penetrated to the equator in

search of gold, emeralds, and aromatics; but they wisely

declined an unequal competition, in which they must

be always prevented by the vicinity of the Persians to

the markets of India; and the emperor submitted to the

disappointment, till his wishes were gratified by an un­

expected event. The gospel had been preached to the

Indians: a bishop already governed the Christians of St.

Thomas on the pepper-coast of Malabar; a church was

c The Taprohane of Pliny, (6.24.) Solinns, (c. 53.) and Salmas. Plinianae
Exerci-

tat. (p. 781, 782.) and most of the ancients, who often confound the islands
of Ceylon

and Sumatra, is more clearly described by Cosmas Indiuopleustes; yet even the

Christian topographer has exaggerated its dimensions. His information on the
In­

dian and Chinese trade is rare and curious, (lib. 2. p. 138.lib. 11. p.337,
338. edit.

Montfaucon.)

d See Proconius, Persic. (lib. 2. c. 20.) Cosmas affords some interesting
know­

ledge of the port and inscription of Adulis (Topograph. Christ. lib. 2. p.
138. 140—

143.) and of the trade nf the Axumites along the African coast uf Barharia or
Zingi,

(p. 138,139.) and as far as Taprohaue. (lib. 11. p. 339.)

