DECLINE AND FALL fCHAP.XLII.

civil and paternal authority. Such a trade," which re­

duces the human species to the level of cattle, may tend

to encourage marriage and population: since the multi­

tude of children enriches their sordid and inhuman pa­

rent. But this source of impure wealth must inevitably

poison the national manners, obliterate the sense of ho­

nour and virtue, and almost extinguish the instincts of

nature; the Christians of Georgia and Mingrelia are the

most dissolute of mankind; and their children, who in

a tender age are sold into foreign slavery, have already

learnt to imitate the rapine of the father and the prosti­

tution of the mother. Yet amidst the rudest ignorance,

the untaught natives discover a singular dexterity both

of mind and hand; and although the want of union and

discipline exposes them to their more powerful neigh­

bours, a bold and intrepid spirit has animated the Col-

chians of every age. In the host of Xerxes, they served

on foot; and their arms were, a dagger or a javelin, a

wooden casque, and a buckler of raw hides. But in their

own country the use of cavalry has more generally pre­

vailed: the meanest of the peasants disdain to walk; the

martial nobles are possessed, perhaps, of two hundred

horses; and above five thousand are numbered in the

train of the prince of Mingrelia. The Colchian govern­

ment has been always a pure and hereditary kingdom;

and the authority of the sovereign is only restrained by

the turbulence of his subjects. Whenever they were

obedient, he could lead a numerous army into the field;

but some faith is requisite to believe, that the single

tribe of the Suanians was composed of two hundred

thousand soldiers, or that the population of Mingrelia

now amounts to four millions of inhabitants.'

* The Mingrelian amhassador arrived at Constantinople with two hundred persons;  
hat he ate (sold) them day by day, till his retinue was diminished to a
secretary and

two valets. (Tavernier, toro. 1. p. 365.) To purchase his mistress, a
Mingrelian gen­

tleman sold twelve priests and his wife to the Turks. (Chardin, tom. p. 66.)

f Strabo, lib. 11. p. 765. Lamberti, Relation do la Mingrelie. Yet we must

avoid the contrary extreme of Chardin, who allows no more than twenty thousand
in­

hahitants to supply an annual exportation of twelve thousand slaves, an
absurdity un­

wortby of that judicious traveller.

