280 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

of the earth, and of an infinite number of horses, sheep,

and oxen. Sardinia and Corsica obeyed the fortune of

Italy; and the sea-coast of Greece was visited by a fleet

of three hundred galleys." The Goths were landed in

Corcyra and the ancient continent of Epirus; they ad­

vanced as far as Nicopolis, the trophy of Augustus, and.

Dodona,b once famous by the oracle of Jove. In every

step of his victories the wise Barbarian repeated to Justi­

nian his desire of peace, applauded the concord of their

predecessors, and offered to employ the Gothic arms in

the service of the empire.

Prepare- Justinian was deaf to the voice of peace; but he neg-

jusUnlaii lected the prosecution of war; and the indolence of his

two war*"' temPer disappointed, in some degree, the obstinacy of

a.d^549 his passions. From this salutary slumber the emperor

was awakened by the pope Vigilius and the patrician Ce-

thegus, who appeared before his throne, and abjured him,

in the name of God and the people, to resume the con­

quest and deliverance of Italy. In the choice of the ge­

nerals, caprice, as well as judgment was shewn. A fleet

and army sailed for the relief of Sicily under the conduct

of Liberius; but his youth and want of experience were

afterward discovered, and before he touched the shores

of the island, he was overtaken by his successor. In the

place of Liberius, the conspirator Artaban was raised

from a prison to military honours; in the pious presump­

tion, that gratitude would animate his valour and fortify

his allegiance. Belisarius reposed in the shade of his

laurels, but the command of the principal army was re­

served for Germanus,0 the emperor's nephew, whose

» In these seas, Procopius searched without success for the isle of Calypso.
He

was shewn at Phaeacia or Corcyra, the petrified ship of Ulysses ; (Odyss. 13.
163.)

but he found it a recent fabric of many stones, dedicated by a merchant to
Jupiter

Cassius. (lib. 4. c. 22.) Eustathius had supposed it to be the fanciful
likeness of a

rock.

» M. d'Anville (Memoires de I'Acad. tom. 32. p. 513—528.) illustrates the gulf
of

Ambracia; hat be cannot ascertain the situation of Dodona. A country in sight
of

Italy is less known than the wilds of America.

e See the acts of Germanus in the public (Vandal, lib. 2. c. 16—18. Goth. lib.
3.

c. 31, 32.) and private history, (Anecdot. c. 5.) and those of his son Justin,
in

Agathias. (lib. 4. c. 130, 131.) Notwithstanding an amhiguous expression
ofjor­

