CHAP. XLIV.] OP THE ROMAN UMPIRE.

possessed, and bequeathed by the soldier alone; and the

fair analogy was extended to the emoluments of any li­

beral profession, the salary of public service, and the sa­

cred liberality of the emperor or the empress. The life

of a citizen was less exposed than his fortune to the

abuse of paternal power. Yet his life might be adverse

to the interest or passions of an unworthy father: the

same crimes that flowed from the corruption, were more

sensibly felt by the humanity, of the Augustan age ; and

the cruel Erixo, who whipped his son till he expired, was

saved by the emperor from the just fury of the multi­

tude/ The Roman father, from the license of servile

dominion, was reduced to the gravity and moderation of

a judge. The presence and opinion of Augustus con­

firmed the sentence of exile pronounced against an in­

tentional parricide by the domestic tribunal of Arius.

Hadrian transported to an island the jealous parent, who,

like a robber, had seized the opportunity of hunting, to

assassinate a youth, the incestuous lover of his step­

mother.8 A private jurisdiction is repugnant to the spi­

rit of monarchy; the parent was again reduced from a

judge to an accuser; and the magistrates were enjoined

by Severus Alexander to hear his complaints and execute

his sentence. He could no longer take the life of a son

without incurring the guilt and punishment of murder;

and the pains of parricide, from which he had been ex­

empted by the Pompeian law, were finally inflicted by

the justice of Constantine.' The same protection was

due to every period of existence: and reason must applaud

the humanity of Paulus, for imputing the crime of mur-

- r The examples of Krixo and Arias are related by Seneca, (de Clement!*, 1. 14,

15.) the former with horTor, the latter withapplfluse. • * •.

'■ Quod latronis magis quam patris jure eum interfeoit, nam patria poteslas in
pie-

late debet nou in alrocitate oonsiatere. (Marcian, Inatitut. lib. 14. in
Pandect, lib.

48. tit. 9. leg. 5.) < ■

1 The Pompeian and Cornelian laws de sicariis and parricidis, are repeated, or
ra­

ther abridged, with the last supplements of Alexander Severus, Constantine,
and Va-

lentinian, in the Pandects, (lib. 48. tit. 8, 9.) and Code. (lib. 9. tit.
16,17.) . See

likewise the Theodosian Code, (lib. 9. tit. 14, 15.) with Godefroy's
Comnienlarv,

(torn. 3. p. 84—113.) who pours a flood of ancient and modern learning over
these

penal laws.

