384 ,n . DECLINE AND FALL, [CHAIVXLIV.

a new system of criminal jurisprudence ;b and the empe­

rors, from Augustus to Justinian, disguised their increasing

rigour under the names of the original authors. But the

invention and frequent use of extraordinary pains, pro­

ceeded from the desire to extend and conceal the progress

of despotism. In the condemnation of illustrious Ro­

mans, the senate was always prepared to confound, at the

will of their masters, the judicial and legislative powers.

It was the duty of the governors to maintain the peace

of their province, by the arbitrary and rigid administra­

tion of justice; the freedom of the city evaporated in the

extent of empire, and the Spanish malefactor, who claim­

ed the privilege of a Roman, was elevated by the com­

mand of Galba on a fairer and more lofty cross.0 Occa­

sional rescripts issued from the throne to decide the ques­

tions, which, by their novelty or importance, appeared

to surpass the authority and discernment of a proconsul.

Transportation and beheading were reserved for honour­

able persons; meaner criminals were either hanged or

burnt, or buried in the mines, or exposed to the wild

beasts of the ampitheatre. Armed robbers were pursued

and extirpated as the enemies of society; the driving

away horses or cattle was made a capital offence ;d but

simple theft was uniformly considered as a mere civil and

private injury. The degrees of guilt, and the modes of

punishment, were too often determined by the discretion

of the rulers, and the subject was left in ignorance of the

legal danger which he might incur by every action of

his life. .•:. .' , ..'

Me»»nr« A sin, a vice, a crime, are the objects of theology,

of guilt. b )jie penai |aw (Legen Cornelia-, Pompeiic, Juliae, of Sylla,
Pompey, and the

Caesars), see the sentences of Panlus (lib. 4. tit. 18—30. p. 497—528. edit
Schult-

ing), the Gregorian Code (Fragment. lib. 19. p 705, 706. in Schulting), the
Collatio

Legum Mosa carom et Romanarum, (tit. 1. 15.) the Theodosian Code, (lib. 9.)
the

Code of Justinian, (lib. 9.) the Pandects, (48.) the Institutes, (lib. 4. tit.
18.) and the

Creek version of Theophilus. (p. 917—926.)

e It was a guardian who had poisoned his ward. The crime was atrocious; yet

the punishment is reckoned by Suetonius (c. 9.) among the acts iu which Galha

shewed himself acer vehemens, etin delictis coercendis immodicus.

d The ahactores or ahigeatores, who drove one horse, or two mares or oxen, or

five hngs, or ten gotts, were subject to capital punishment, (Paul. Sentent.
Recept.

lib 4. tit 18. p. 497, 498.) Hadrian (ad Coocil. Bosticaj), most severe where
the

