414 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

emperor "entertained some thoughts of contracting a

double alliance with the rival of his throne. The voice

of an angel (such a fable was propagated) might reveal to

the emperor, that he should always triumph over his do­

mestic foes; but Tiberius derived a firmer assurance

from the innocence and generosity of his own mind.

HisTirtaes. With the odious name of Tiberius, he assumed the

more popular appellation of Constantine, and imitated

the purer virtues of the Antonines. After recording the

vice or folly of so many Roman princes, it is pleasant to

repose, for a moment, on a character conspicuous by the

qualities of humanity, justice, temperance, and fortitude;

to contemplate a sovereign affable in his palace, pious in

the church, impartial on the seat of judgment, and victo­

rious, at least by his generals, in the Persian war. The

most glorious trophy of his victory consisted in a multi­

tude of captives whom Tiberius entertained, redeemed,

and dismissed to their native homes with the charitable

spirit of a Christian hero. The merit or misfortunes of

his own subjects had a dearer claim to his beneficence,

and he measured his bounty not so much by their expec­

tations as by his own dignity. This maxim, however

dangerous in a trustee of the public wealth, was balanced

by a principle of humanity and justice, which taught him

to abhor, as of the basest alloy, the gold that was extract­

ed from the tears of the people. For their relief, as

often as they had suffered by natural or hostile calami­

ties, he was impatient to remit the arrears of the past,

or the demands of future taxes: he sternly rejected the

servile offerings of his ministers, which were compensa­

ted by tenfold oppression; and the wise and equitable

laws of Tiberius excited the praise and regret of succeed­

ing times. Constantinople believed that the emperor

had discovered a treasure: but his genuine treasure con­

sisted in the practice of liberal economy, and the con­

tempt of all vain and superfluous expense. The Romans

of the east would have been happy, if the best gift of hea­

