CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

death to relieve or approach the victim; and Mebodes

languished several days before his sentence was pro­

nounced, by the inflexible pride and calm ingratitude of

the son of Kobad. But the people, more especially in

the east, is disposed to forgive, and even to applaud, the

cruelty which strikes at the loftiest heads; at the slaves

of ambition, whose voluntary choice has exposed them

to live in the smiles, and to perish by the frown, of a ca­

pricious monarch, in the execution of the laws which he

had no temptation to violate; in the punishment of

crimes which attacked his own dignity, as well as the

happiness of individuals; Nushirvan, or Chosroes, de­

served the appellation of just. His government was

firm, rigorous, and impartial. It was the first labour of

his reign to abolish the dangerous theory of common or

equal possessions: the lands and women which the sec­

taries of Mazdak had usurped, were restored to their

lawful owners; .and the temperate chastisement of the

fanatics or impostors confirmed the domestic rights of soi

ciety. Instead of listening with blind confidence to a

favourite minister, he established four viziers over the

four great provinces of his empire, Assyria, Media, Per­

sia, and Bactriana. In the choice of judges, prefects,

-and counsellors, he strove to remove the mask which is' ■  
always worn in the presence of kings; he wished to sub­

stitute the natural order of talents for the accidental dis­

tinctions of birth and fortune ; he professed, in specious

language, his intention to prefer those men who carried

,the poor in their bosoms, and to banish corruption from

the seat of justice, as dogs were excluded from the tem­

ples of the Magi. The code of laws of the first Artax-

erxes was revived and published as the rule of the magis­

trates; but the assurance of speedy punishment was the

best security of their virtue. Their behaviour was in­

spected by a thousand eyes, their words were overheard

the palace of Ispahan is, or was, the fatal scene of disgrace or death.
(Chardin, Voy­

age en Perse, torn. 4. p, 312, 313.)

