CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

found under the vague and common appellation of a'

loan. In the former, the borrower was obliged to re­

store the same individual thing with which he had been

'accommodated for the temporary supply of his wants; in

the latter, it was destined for his use and consumption,

and he discharged this mutual engagement, by substitu­

ting the same specific value, according to a just estima­

tion of number, of weight, and of measure. In the con­

tract of sale, the absolute dominion is transferred to the

purchaser, and he repays the benefit with an adequate

sum of gold or silver, the price and universal standard of

all earthly possessions. The obligation of another con­

tract, that of location, is of a more complicated kind.

Lands or houses, labour or talents, may be hired for a de­

finite term; at the expiration of the time, the thing itself

must be restored to the owner with an additional reward

for the beneficial occupation and employment. In these

lucrative contracts, to which may be added those of part­

nership and commissions, the civilians sometimes imagine

the delivery of the object, and sometimes presume the

consent of the parties. The substantial pledge has been

refined into the invisible rights of a mortgage or hypo-

theca; and the agreement of sale, for a certain price, im­

putes, from that moment, the chances of gain or loss to

the account of the purchaser. It may be fairly supposed,

that every man will obey the dictates of his interest; and

if he accepts the benefit, he is obliged to sustain the ex­

pense, of the transaction. In this boundless subject, the

historian will observe the location of land and money, the

rent of the one and the interest of the other, as they ma­

terially affect the prosperity of agriculture and commerce.

The landlord was often obliged to advance the stock and

instruments of husbandry, arid to content himself with

a partition of the fruits. If the feeble tenant was oppress­

ed by accident, contagion, or hostile violence, he claimed

a proportionable relief from the equity of the laws: five

years were the customary term, and no solid or costly

