DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

thorsof epic poetry and romance, they ascribe the victory,

not to the military conduct, but to the personal va­

lour, of their favourite hero. On this memorable day,

Heraclius, on his horse Phallus, surpassed the bravest of

his warriors: his lip was pierced with a spear, the steed

was wounded in the thigh, but he carried his master

safe and victorious through the triple phalanx of the bar­

barians. In the heat of the action, three valiant chiefs

were successively slain by the sword and lance of the em­

peror; among these was Rhazates himself; he fell like

a soldier, but the sight of his head scattered grief and

despair through the fainting ranks of the Persians. His

armour of pure and massy gold, the shield of one hun­

dred and twenty plates, the sword and belt, the saddle

and cuirass, adorned the triumph of Heraclius, and if he

had not been faithful to Christ and his mother, the

champion of Rome might have offered the fourth opime

spoils to the Jupiter of the Capitol.1 In the battle of

Nineveh, which was fiercely fought from day-break to

the eleventh hour, twenty-eight standards, besides those

which might be broken or torn, were taken from the

^Persians; the greatest part of their army was cut in

pieces, and the victors, concealing their own loss, passed

the night on the field. They acknowledged, that on this

occasion it was less difficult to kill than to discomfit the

soldiers of Chosroes; amidst the bodies of their friends,

no more than two bow-shot from the enemy, the rem­

nant of the Persian cavalry stood firm till the seventh

hour of the night; about the eighth hour they retired to

their unrifled camp, collected their baggage, and dispers­

ed on all sides, from the want of orders rather than of

resolution.' The diligence of Heraclius was not less ad­

mirable in the use of victory; by a march of forty-eight

miles in four-and-twenty hours, his vanguard occupied

the bridges of the greater and the lesser Zab; and the

1 Rex regia arma fero (says Romulus, in the first consecration) .... hina
postea

(continues Livy, 1.10.) inter tot bella, opima parta sunt spolia, adeo rara
ejus for-

tuna decoris. If Varro (apud Pomp. Festum, p. 306. edit. Dacier) conld justify
his

liberality in granting the opime spoils to a common soldier who had slain the
king or

general of the enemy, tbe honour would have been much more cheap and common.

