25§ DECLINE AND tfALL [CHAP. XLIIJ;

mans; and our wonder is reasonably excited that they

should presume to enlarge an empire, whose ancient li­

mits they were incapable of defending. But the wars,

the conquests, and the triumphs, of Justinian, are the

feeble and pernicious efforts of old age, which exhaust

the remains of strength, and accelerate the decay of the

powers of life. He exulted in the glorious act of restor­

ing Africa and Italy to the republic; but the calamities

which followed the departure of Belisarius betrayed the

. impotence of the conqueror, and accomplished the ruin

of those unfortunate countries. . '.":

The troo- From his new acquisitions, Justinian expected that his

Africa, avarice, as well as pride, should be richly gratified. A

—545.535 rapacious minister of the finances closely pursued the

footsteps of Belisarius; and as the old registers of tribute

had been burnt by the Vandals, he indulged his fancy in

a liberal calculation and arbitrary assessment of the

wealth of Africa." The increase of taxes, which were

drawn away by a distant sovereign, and a general re­

sumption of the patrimony or crown lands, soon dispell­

ed the intoxication of the public joy: but the emperor

was insensible to the modest complaints of the people,

till he was awakened and alarmed by the clamours of

military discontent. Many of the Roman soldiers had

married the widows and daughters of the Vandals. »As

their own, by the double right of conquest and inherit­

ance, they claimed the estates which Genseric had assign­

ed to his victorious troops. They heard with disdain the

cold and selfish representations of their officers, that the

Theophanes (in Chronograph, p. 144,145. 188, 189. 206, 207. who is full of
strange

blunders); Poeock; (Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 62. 65.) d'Herbelot, (Biblrot.
Orien-

tale, p. 12. 477.) and Sale's Preliminary Discourse and Koran. (c. 105.) The
re­

volt of Abrahab is mentioned by Procopioj; and his fall, though clouded with
mira­

cles, is an historical fact. • - , ,' .

* For the troubles of Africa, I neither hare nor desire another gnide than Prono-  
pins, whose eye eontemplated the image, and whose ear collected the reports,
of the

memorable events of his own times. "In the second book of the Vandalic war he
re­

lates the revolt of Stozas, (e. 14—24.) the return of Belisarius, (c. 15.) the
victory

of Germanus, (c. 16—18.) the second administration of Solomon, (e. 19—21.) the

goverument of Sergius, (c. 22, 23.) of Areoblndus, (c. 24.) the tyranny and
death of

Gontharis; (c. 25—28.) nor can I discern any symptoms of flattery or
malevolence

in his various, portraits. . ». >' . .' I)

