CHAP. XLII.j OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

one hundred and twenty thousand of the subjects of

Justinian. In a subsequent inroad they pierced the wall

of the Thracian Chersonesus, extirpated the habitations

and the inhabitants, boldly traversed the Hellespont, and

returned to their companions, laden with the spoils of

Asia. Another party, which seemed a multitude in the

eyes of the Romans, penetrated, without opposition,

from the straits of Thermopylas to the isthmus of Co­

rinth; and the last ruin of Greece has appeared an ob­

ject too minute for the attention of history. The works

which the emperor raised for the protection, but at the

expense of his subjects, served only to disclose the weak­

ness of some neglected part; and the walls, which, by

flattery, had been deemed impregnable, were either de­

serted by the garrison, or scaled by the barbarians. Three

thousand Sclavonians, who insolently divided themselves

into two bands, discovered the weakness and misery of

a triumphant reign. They passed the Danube and the

Hebrus, vanquished the Roman generals who dared to

oppose their progress, and plundered, with impunity,

the cities of Illyricum and Thrace, each o£ which had

arms and numbers to overwhelm their contemptible as­

sailants. Whatever praise the boldness of the Sclavo­

nians may deserve, it is sullied by the wanton and deli­

berate cruelty which they are accused of exercising on

their prisoners. Without distinction of rank, or age,

or sex, the captives were impaled or flayed alive, or sus­

pended between four posts, and beaten with clubs till

they expired, or inclosed in some spacious building, and

left to perish in the flames with the spoil and cattle

which might impede the march of these savage victors."

Perhaps a more impartial narrative would reduce the

number, and qualify the nature, of these horrid acts;

and they might sometimes be excused by the cruel laws

"The cruelties of the Sclavonians are related or magnified by Procopius.
(Goth.

lib. 3. o. 29. 38.) For their mild and liberal behaviour to their prisoners,
we may

appeal to the authority, somewhat more reecut, of the emperor Maurice.
(Stratagem,

lib. 2.C.5.)

