CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

Theodoric and his immediate successors, but every deed

was rescinded and abolished, which force had extorted,

or fear had subscribed, under the usurpation of Totila.

A moderate theory was framed to reconcile the rights of

property with the safety of prescription, the claims of the

state with the poverty of the people, and the pardon of

offences with the interest of virtue and order of society.

Under the exarchs of Ravenna, Rome was degraded to

the second rank. Yet the senators were gratified by the

permission of visiting their estates in Italy, and of ap­

proaching without obstacle the throne of Constantinople;

the regulation of weights and measures was delegated to

the pope and senate; and the salaries of lawyers and

physicians, of orators and grammarians, were destined to

preserve or rekindle the light of science in the ancient

capital. Justinian might dictate benevolent edicts,1 and

Narses might second his wishes by the restoration of

cities, and more especially of churches. But the power

of kings is most effectual to destroy: and the twenty

years of the Gothic war had consummated the distress

and depopulation of Italy. As early as the fourth cam­

paign, under the discipline of Belisarius himself, fifty

thousand labourers died of hunger"1 in the narrow region

of Picenum and a strict interpretation of the evidence

of Procopius would swell the loss of Italy above the to­

tal sum of her present inhabitants.0 - "j

1 Tlie Pragmatic Sanction of Justinian, which restores and regulates the civil

state of Italy, consists of twenty-seven articles: it is dated August 15, A.
D. 554;

is addressed to .Narses, V. J, Propositus Sacri Cubicnli, and to Antiochus,
Pras-

fectus Prcetorio Italia?; and has been preserved by Julian Antecessor, and in
the

Corpus Juris Civilis, after the novels and edicts of Justinian, Justin, , and
Tibe­

rius.

m A still greater number was consumed by famine in the southern provinces,
with­

out (wrof) the Ionian gulf. Acorns were used iu the place of bread. Procopius

had seen a deserted orphan suckled by a sbe-goat. Seventeen passengers were

lodged, murdered, and eaten by two women, who were detected and slain by the

eighteenth, &c. >

"Quinta regio Piceni est; quondam uberrima; muUitudinis, ccclx millia
Picentium

in fidein P. R. venere. (Plin. Hist. Nalur. 3.18.) In the time'of Vespasian,
this an­

cient population was already diminished.

° Perhaps fifteen or sixteen millions. Procopius (Anecdot. c. 18) computes
that

Africa lost lire millions, that Italy was thrice as extensive, and that the
depopulation

was in a larger proportion. But his reckoning is inflamed by passion, aud
clouded

wilb uncertainty.

VOL. V. X

