CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 409

mankind was protected by the selfish policy of the ex­

arch. With her daughter, the heiress of the Lombard

throne, her two lovers, her trusty Gepidae, and, the

spoils of the palace of Verona, Rosamond descended

the Adige and the Po, and was transported by a Greek

vessel to the safe harbour of Ravenna. Longinus be­

held with delight the charms and the treasures of the

widow of Alboin: her situation and her past conduct

might justify the most licentious proposals; and she rea­

dily listened to the passion of a minister, who, even in

the decline of the empire, was respected as the equal of

kings. The death of a jealous lover was an easy and

grateful sacrifice, and as Helmichis issued from the bath,

he received the deadly potion from the hand of his mis­

tress. The taste of the liquor, its speedy operation, and

his experience of the character of Rosamond, convinced

him that he was poisoned: he pointed his dagger to her

breast, compelled her to drain the remainder of the cup,

and expired in a few minutes, with the consolation that

she could not survive to enjoy the fruits of her wicked­

ness. The daughter of Alboin and Rosamond, with the

richest spoils of the Lombards, was embarked for Con­

stantinople; the surprising strength of Peredeus amused

and terrified the imperial court; his blindness and re­

venge exhibited an imperfect copy of the adventures of

Sampson. By the free suffrage of the nation, in the as- ciepiio,

sembly of Pavia, Clepho, one of their noblest chiefs, was ^f*s°

elected as the successor of Alboin. Before the end of*- D.573.

August.

eighteen months, the throne was polluted by a second

murder; Clepho was stabbed by the hand of a domestic;

the regal office was suspended above ten years, during

the minority of his son Autharis; and Italy was divided

and oppressed by a ducal aristocracy of thirty tyrants/

When the nephew of Justinian ascended the throne, Weakness

he proclaimed a new era of happiness and glory. The j™s".

y See the history of Paul, lib. 2. c. 28—32. I have borrowed some interesting
tiuian.

eiroumslances from the Liber Ponlificalis of Agnellus, in Script. Rer. Ital.
torn. 2.

p. 124. Of all chronological gaides, Mnrttori is the safest.

VOL. V. 1 E ,

