CHAP.XtlV.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

custom of antiquity, he bought his bride of her parents,;

and she fulfilled the coemption, by purchasing, with three

pieces of copper, a just introduction to his house and

household deities. A sacrifice of fruits was offered by

the pontiffs in the presence of ten witnesses; the con­

tracting parties were seated on the same sheepskin ; they

tasted a salt cake offar or rice 5 and this confarreation?

which denoted the ancient food of Italy, served as an

emblem of their mystic union of mind and body. But

this union on the side of the woman was rigorous and

unequal; and she renounced the name and worship of

her father's house, to embrace a new servitude decorated

only by the title of adoption. A fiction of the law, nei-.

ther rational nor elegant, bestowed on the mother of a

familyb (her proper appellation) the strange characters of

sister to her own children, and of daughter to her hus­

band or master, who was invested with the plenitude of

paternal power. By his judgment or caprice her beha­

viour was approved, or censured, or chastised; he exer-r

eised the jurisdiction of life and death; and it was ah

lowed, that in cases of adultery or drunkenness," the

sentence might be properly inflicted. She acquired and

inherited for the sole profit of her lord; and so clearly

was woman defined, not as a person, but as a thing, that

if the original title were deficient, she might be claimed^

like Other moveables, by the use and possession of an em-

tire year. The inclination of the Roman husband dis*

charged or withheld the conjugal debt, so scrupulously

exacted by the Athenian and Jewish laws ;d but as poly*

a Among the winter frumenta, the triticum, or bearded wheat; the siligo, or
the

unbearded ; the far, adorea, oryza, whose description perfectly tallies with
the rice

Of Spain and Italy. I adopt this identity on the credit of M. Pancton in his
nsefnl

fcnd faborionS Metrologie, (p. 517—529.)

*> Aulas Gellius (Nootes Atticae, 18. 6.) gives a ridicalons definition of /Elins Me-  
lissirs, Matrona, quae semel, materfamilias quae saepius peperit, as porcetra
andscro-

pha in the now kind. He then adds the genuine meaning, quae in matrimonium vcl

in manam convenerat.. 1

c It Was enough to have tasted wine, or to have stolen the key of the cellar.
(Plin.

Hist. Nat. 14. 14.)

■ 11 Solon requires three payments per month. By the Misna, a daily debt was
im-

posed'on an idle, vigorous young hushand; twice a week on n citizen; once on a

peasant; once in thirty days on a camel-driver; once in six months on a
seaman.

