CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 133

visions for a voyage, perhaps, of three months. The

proud galleys, which in former ages swept the Mediterra­

nean with so many hundred oars, had long since disap­

peared; and the fleet of Justinian was escorted only by

ninety-two light brigantines, covered from the missile

weapons of the enemy, and rowed by two thousand of

the brave and robust youth of Constantinople. Twenty-

two generals are named, most of whom were afterward

distinguished in the wars of Africa and Italy: but the

supreme command, both by land and sea, was delegated

to Belisarius alone, with a boundless power of acting ac­

cording to his discretion, as if the emperor himself were

present. The separation of the naval and military pro­

fessions is at once the effect and the cause of modern

improvements in the science of navigation and mari­

time war.

In the seventh year of the reign of Justinian, and Departure

about the time of the summer solstice, the whole fleet a. d. 533,'

of six hundred ships was ranged in martial pomp before June"

the gardens of the palace. The patriarch pronounced

his benediction, the emperor signified his last commands,

the general's trumpet gave the signal of departure, and

every heart, according to its fears or wishes, explored

with anxious curiosity the omens of misfortune and suc­

cess. The first halt was made at Perinthus or Heraclea,

where Belisarius waited five days to receive some Thra-

cian horses, a military gift of his sovereign. From thence

the fleet pursued their course through the midst of the

Propontis; but, as they struggled to pass the straits of

the Hellespont, an unfavourable wind detained them

four days at Abydus, where the general exhibited a me­

morable lesson of firmness and severity. Two of the

Huns, who, in a drunken quarrel, had slain one of their

fellow-soldiers, were instantly shewn to the army sus­

pended on a lofty gibbet. The national indignity was

resented by their countrymen, who disclaimed the ser­

vile laws of the empire, and asserted the free privilege of

K 2

