CHAP.XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 473

duced and destroyed by the Persian monarch : he passed H'»<">"-

the Euphrates, occupied the Syrian cities, Hierapolis; Syria,"

Chalehis, and Berrhaea or Aleppo, and soon encompassed A" D,6U*

the walls of Antioch with his irresistible arms. The ra­

pid tide of success discloses the decay of the empire, the

incapacity of Phocas, and the disaffection of his subjects;

and Chosroes provided a decent apology for their sub­

mission or revolt, by an imposter who attended his camp,

as the son of Maurice™ and the lawful heir of the mo­

narchy.

The first intelligence from the east which Heraclius

received," was that of the loss of Antioch; but the aged

metropolis, so often overturned by earthquakes and pil­

laged by the enemy, could supply but a small and languid

stream of treasure and blood. The Persians were equally

successful and more fortunate in the sack of Cassarea,

the capital of Cappadocia; and as they advanced beyond

the ramparts of the frontiers, the boundary of ancient

war, they found a less obstinate resistance and a more

plentiful harvest. The pleasant vale of Damascus has been

adorned in every age with a royal city: her obscure fe­

licity has hitherto escaped the historian of the Roman

empire: but Chosroes reposed his troops in the paradise

of Damascus before he ascended the hills of Libanus3 or

invaded the cities of the Phenician coast. The conquest of Paies-

of Jerusalem," which had been meditated by Nushirvan,AneD. r,u;

was achieved by the zeal and avarice of his grandson;

m The Persian historians have been themselves deceived; but Theophanes (p.

244.) accuses Chosroos of the fraud and falsehood; and Eutychius believes
(Annal,

tom. 2. p. 211.) that the son of Maurice, who was saved from the assassins,
lived

and died a monk on mount Sinai.

» Entyohius dates all the losses of the empire under the reign of Phocas, an
error

which saves the honour of Heraclius, whom he brings not from Carthage, but
Salonica,

with a fleet laden with vegetables for the relief of Constantinople. (Annal.
tom. 2.

p. 223, 224.) The other Christians of the east, Barbebraus, (apud Asseman, Bi-

bliothec. Oriental, tom. 3. p. 412, 413.) Elmacin, (Hist. Saraceu. p. 13—16.)

Abulpharagins, (Dynast. p. 98, 99.) are more sincere and acourate. The years
of

the Persiau war are disposed in the chronology of Pagi.

° On the conquest of Jerusalem, an event so interesting to the church, see the

Annals of Entychins, (tom. 2. p. 212—223.) and the lamentations of the monk
An-

tioohus, (apud Baronium, Annal. Ecoles. A. D. 614. no. 16—26.) whose one hun­

dred and twenty-nine homilies are stjjl extant, if what no one reads may be
said to

be extant.

VOL. V. 1 I

