488 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

the danger of his kingdom, the powers of Chosroes were

already recalled from the Nile and the Bosphorus, and

three formidable armies surrounded, in a distant and

hostile land, the camp of the emperor. The Colchian

allies prepared to desert his standard; and the fears of

the bravest veterans were expressed, rather than conceal­

ed, by their desponding silence. "Be not terrified (said

the intrepid Heraclius) by the multitude of your foes.

With the aid of heaven, one Roman may triumph over

a thousand barbarians. But if we devote our lives for the

salvation of our brethren, we shall obtain the crown of

martyrdom, and our immortal reward will be liberally paid

by God and posterity." These magnanimous sentiments

were supported by the vigour of his actions. He repelled

the threefold attack of the Persians, improved the divi­

sions of their chiefs, and by a well-concerted train of

marches, retreats, and successful actions, finally chased

them from the field into the fortified cities of Media and

Assyria. In the severity of the winter season, Sabaraza

deemed himself secure in the walls of Salban; he was sur­

prised by the activity of Heraclius, who divided his troops

and performed a laborious march in the silence of the

night. The flat roofs of the houses were defended with

useless valour against the darts and torches of the Ro­

mans: the satraps and nobles of Persia, with their wives

and children, and the flower of their martial youth, were

either slain or made prisoners. The general escaped by

a precipitate flight, but his golden armour was the prize

of the conqueror ; and the soldiers of Heraclius enjoyed

the wealth and repose which they had so nobly deserved.

On the return of spring, the emperor traversed in seven

days the mountains of Curdistan, and passed without re­

sistance the rapid stream of the Tigris. Oppressed by the

weight of their spoils and captives, the Roman army

halted under the walls of Amida; and Heraclius inform­

ed the senate of Constantinople of his safety and success,

which they had already felt by the retreat of the be-

