CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

Catholic bishops devoted to his interest, the clergy and

the monks were gained by his liberality, and the people

were taught to pray for theipfuture sovereign, the hope

and pillar of the true religion. The magnificence of

Justinian was displayed in the superior pomp of his public

spectacles, an object not less sacred and important in the

eyes of the multitude, than the creed of Nice or Chal-

cedon; the expense of his consulship was esteemed at

two hundred and eighty-eight thousand pieces of gold;

twenty lions, and thirty leopards, were produced at the

same time in the amphitheatre, and a numerous train of

horses, with their rich trappings, was bestowed as an

extraordinary gift on the victorious charioteers of the

circus. While he indulged the people of Constanti­

nople, and received the addresses of foreign kings, the

nephew of Justin assiduously cultivated the friendship of.

the senate. That venerable name seemed to qualify its

members to declare the sense of the nation, and to regu­

late the succession of the imperial throne: the feeble

Anastasius had permitted the vigour of government to

degenerate into the form or substance of an aristocracy;

and the military officers who had obtained the senatorial

rank, were followed by their domestic guards, a band of

veterans, whose arms or acclamations might fix in a tu­

multuous moment the diadem of the east. The trea­

sures of the state were lavished to procure the voices of

the senators; and their unanimous wish, that he would

be pleased to adopt Justinian, for his colleague, was com­

municated to the emperor. But this request, which too

clearly admonished him of his approaching end, was un­

welcome to the jealous temper of an aged monarch, de­

sirous to retain the power which he was incapable of

exercising; and Justin, holding his purple with both his

hands, advised them to prefer, since an election was so

profitable, some older candidate. Notwithstanding this

reproach, the senate proceeded to decorate Justinian with

the royal epithet of nobilissimus; and their decree was

E a

