CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

temple; almost every city of the empire obtained the

solid advantages of bridges, hospitals, and aqueducts;

but the severe liberality of the monarch disdained to in­

dulge his subjects in the popular luxury of baths and

theatres. While Justinian laboured for the public ser­

vice, he was not unmindful of his own dignity and ease.

The Byzantine palace, which had been damaged by the

conflagration, was restored with new magnificence; and

some notions may be conceived of the whole edifice, by

the vestibule or hall, which, from the doors perhaps, or

the roof, was surnamed choice, or the brazen. The

dome of a spacious quadrangle was supported by massy

pillars; the pavement and walls were incrusted with

many coloured marbles—the emerald green of Laconia;

the fiery red, and the white Phrygian stone intersected

with veins of a sea-green hue: the mosaic paintings of

the dome and sides represented the glories of the African

and Italian triumphs. On the Asiatic shore of the Pro-

pontis, at a small distance to the east of Chalcedon, the

costly palace and gardens of Heraeum'' were prepared for

the summer residence of Justinian; and more especially

Theodora. The poets of the age have celebrated the

rare alliance of nature and art, the harmony of the

nymphs of the groves, the fountains, and the waves;

yet the crowd of attendants who followed the court com­

plained of their inconvenient lodgings,' and the nymphs

were too often alarmed by the famous Porphyrio, a

whale of ten cubits in breadth, and thirty in length, who

was stranded at the mouth of the river Sangaris, after he

had infested more than half a century the seas of Con­

stantinople.5

i For the Heraenm, the palace of Theodora, see Gyllius (da Bosphoro Thraciot,

lib. 3. c. 11.) Aleman. (Not. ad Aneodot. p. 80, 81. who quotes sereral
epigrams of

the Anthology,( and Ducange (C P. Christ. lib. 4. o. 13. p. 175,176.)

_r Compare, in the Edifices, (lib. 1. c. 11.) aud in the Anecdotes, (c. 8—15.)
the

different styles of adulation and malevolence: stripped of the paint, or
cleansed from

the dirt, the object appears to be the same.

* Preoopius, lib. 8.29. most prohably a stranger and wanderer, as the Mediterra­  
nean does not breed whales. Balaenae quoque in nostra maria penetrant. (Plin.
Hist,

JNatur. 9. 2.) Between the polar circle and the tropic, the cetaceous animals
of tha

H 2

