CHAP. XLII.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 203

the mode of revenge which Justinian embraced. Instead

of asserting the rights of a sovereign for the protection

of his subjeets, the emperor invited a strange people to

invade and possess the Roman provinces between the

Danube and the Alps; and the ambition of the Gepida?

was checked by the rising power and fame of the Lom­

bards.8 This corrupt appellation has been diffused in j^1'^ Lom"

the thirteenth century by the merchants and bankers,

the Italian posterity of these savage warriors: but the

original name of Langobards is expressive only of the

peculiar length and fashion of their beards. I am not

disposed either to question or to justify their Scandina­

vian origin;11 nor to pursue the migrations of the Lom­

bards through unknown regions artd marvellous adven­

tures. About the time of Augustus and Trajan, a ray

of historic light breaks on the darkness of their antiqui­

ties, and they are discovered, for the first time, between

the Elbe and the Oder. Fierce, beyond the example of

theGermans, they delighted to propagate the tremendous

belief, that their heads were formed like the heads of

dogs, and that they drank the blood of their enemies

whom they vanquished in battle. The smallness of their

numbers was recruited by the adoption of their bravest

slaves ; and alone, amidst their powerful neighbours, they

defended by arms their high-spirited independence. In

the tempests of the north, which overwhelmed so many

names and nations, this little bark of the Lombards still

floated on the surface : they gradually descended towards

the south and the Danube: and at the end of four hun­

dred years they again appear with their ancient valour

( Gens Germana feritate ferociur, says Velleius Paterculus or the Lomhards.

(2. 106.) Langohardos paucitas nohilitat. Plurimis ac valentissimis nationibus

eiucti don per obsequium sed prrcliis et periclitando tuti sunt. (Tacit. de
Moribus

German. c. 40.) See likewise Strabo. (lib. 7. p. 446.) The best geographers
place

(hem beyond the Elbe,in the hishoprick of Magdburegh and the middle march of
Bran.

denburgh; and their situation will agree with the patriotio remark of the
count de

Hertzburg, that most of the harharian conquerors issued from the same
countries

which still produce the armies of Prussia.

h The Scandinavian origin of the Gotbs and Lomhards, as stated by Paul Warne-
«

•rid, surnamed the deacon, is attacked by Cluverius, (Germaiiia Anticj. lib.
3. c. 26.

p. 103, &o.) a native of Prussia, and defended by Grotiusj (Prolegom. ad Hist.
Goth,

p. 28, &c.) the Swedish amhassador.

P 2

