DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

suspicion is propagated by the secret arts of his disciple

Anthemius.' A citizen of Tralles in Asia had five sons,

who were all distinguished in their respective professions

by merit and success. Olympius excelled in the know­

ledge and practice of the Roman jurisprudence. Dios-

corus and Alexander became learned physicians; but

the skill of the former was exercised for the benefit of

his fellow-citizens, while his more ambitious brothers ac­

quired wealth and reputation at Rome. The fame of

Metrodorus the grammarian, and of Anthemius the ma­

thematician and architect, reached the ears of the em­

peror Justinian, who invited them to Constantinople;

and while the one instructed the rising generation in the

schools of eloquence, the other filled the capital and pro­

vinces with more lasting monuments of his art. In a

trifling dispute, relative to the walls or windows of their

contiguous houses, he had been vanquished by the elo­

quence of his neighbour Zeno; but the orator was de­

feated in his turn by the master of mechanics, whose

malicious, though harmless, stratagems, are darkly re­

presented by the ignorance of Agathias. In a lower

room, Anthemius arranged several vessels, or cauldrons,

of water, each of them covered by the wide bottom of a

leathern tube, which rose to a narrow top, and was arti­

ficially conveyed among the joists and rafters of the adja­

cent building. A fire was kindled beneath the cauldron;

the steam of the boiling water ascended through the

tubes; the house was shaken by the efforts of imprison­

ed air, and its trembling inhabitants might wonder that

the city was unconscious of the earthquake, which they

had felt. At another time, the friends of Zeno, as they

sat at table, were dazzled by the intolerable light which

flashed in their eyes from the reflecting mirrors of An­

themius; they were astonished by the noise which he

produced from a collision of certain minute and sono-

1 Agathias lib. 5. p. 149—Ib'i. The merit of Antbemina a» an architect i>

loudly praised bj Piocopius (de lidif. lib. 1. c. 1.) and Paulus Sileuliarius,
(pari

1.134,&c.)

