CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

you not already the worst of slaves, the slave of the vile

nation of the Moors? Would it not be preferable to sustain

at Constantinople a life of poverty and servitude rather

than to reign the undoubted monarch of the mountain

of Papua? Do you think it a disgrace to be the subject

of Justinian? Belisarius is his subject; and we ourselves,

whose birth is not inferior to your own, are not ashamed

of our obedience to the Roman emperor. That gene­

rous prince will grant you a rich inheritance of lands, a

place in the senate, and the dignity of patrician: such

are his gracious intentions, and you may depend with

full assurance on the word of Belisarius. So long as

Heaven has condemned us to suffer, patience is a virtue;

but if we reject the proffered deliverance, it degene­

rates into blind and stupid despair."—" I am not insen­

sible (replied the king of the Vandals) how kind and ra­

tional is your advice. But I cannot persuade myself to

become the slave of an unjust enemy, who has deserved

my implacable hatred. Him I had never injured either

by word or deed; yet he has sent against me, I know not

from whence, a certain Belisarius, who has cast me head­

long from the throne into this abyss of misery. Justi­

nian is a man; he is a prince; does he not dread for

himself a similar reverse of fortune; I can write no more:

my grief oppresses me. Send me, I beseech you, my

dear Pharas, send me, a lyre,g a sponge, and a loaf of

bread." From the Vandal messenger, Pharas was in­

formed of the motives of this singular request. It was

long since the king of Africa had tasted bread; a de-

fluxion had fallen on his eyes, the effect of fatigue or in­

cessant weeping; and he wished to solace the melancholy

hours, by singing to the lyre the sad story of his own

misfortunes. The humanity of Pharas was moved; he

sent the three extraordinary gifts; but even his human­

ity prompted him to redouble the vigilance of his guard,

s By Procopius it is stylod a lyre; perhaps harp would have been more
national.

The instruments of music are thus distinguished by Venanlius Fortunatus.—

Human usque lyrt tibi plaudat, Barbaras harpd.

