444 r DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP XLVI.

were invaded by the great khan, who passed the Oxus at

the head of three or four hundred thousand Turks. The

imprudent Hormouz accepted their perfidious and for­

midable aid; the cities of Khorasan or Bactriana were

commanded to open their gates; the march of the bar­

barians towards the mountains of Hyrcania revealed the

correspondence of the Turkish and Roman arms; and

their union must have subverted the throne of the house

of Sassan.

Bahrain °f I>ers'a had been lost by a king; it was saved by a

a. d. 590. hero. After his revolt, Varanes or Bahram is stigma­

tized by the son of Hormouz as an ungrateful slave : the

proud and ambiguous reproach of despotism, since he

was truly descended from the ancient princes of Rei,k

one of the seven families whose splendid, as well as sub­

stantial prerogatives exalted them above the heads of the

Persian nobility.' At the siege of Dara, the valour of

Bahram was signalized under the eyes of Nushirvan,

and both the father and son successively promoted him

to the command of armies, the government of Media,

and the superintendence of the palace. The popular

prediction which marked him as the deliverer of Persia,

might be inspired by his past victories and extraordinary

figure: the epithet Giubin is expressive of the quality of

dry wood; he had the strength and stature of a giant,

and his savage countenance was fancifully compared to

nufacture; but in the next thousand years, many others issued from the same
work­

shop.

k Ragae, or Rei, is mentioned in the apocryphal book of Tohitas already
flourish­

ing, seven hnndred years before Christ, under the Assyrian empire. Under the
fo­

reign names of Europus and Arsaeia, this city, five hundred stadia to the
sonth of

the Caspian gates, was successively embellished by the Macedonians and
Parthiasis.

(Strabo, lib. 11. p. 796.) Its grandeur and populonsness in the ninth century
is ex­

aggerated beyond the bounds of credihility ; but Rei has been since ruined by
wars

and the unwholesomeness of the air. Chardin, Voyage en Perse, tom. 1. p. 279,

280. D'Herbelot, Biblioth. Oriental, p. 714.

1 Theophylact, lib. 3. 0, 18. The story of the seven Persians is told in the
third

book of Herodotus; and their noble descendants are often mentioned, especially
in

the fragments of Ctesias. Yet the independence of Otanes (Herodot. lib. 3. c.
83,

84.) is hostile to the spirit of despotism, and it may not seem prohable that
the seven

families could survive the revolutions of eleven hundred years. They might,
how­

ever, be represented by the seven ministers ; (Brizzon, de Regno Persico, lib.
1.

p. 190.) and some Persian nobles, like the kings of Pontus (Polyb. lib. 5. p.
540.)

and Cappadocia, (Diodor. Sicul. lib. 31, tom. 2. p. 517.) might claim their
descent

■hom the bold companions of Darius. •■

