CHAP. XL1V.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the supreme tribunal of the people. But a wild demo­

cracy, superior to the forms, too often disdains the es­

sential principles, of justice: the pride of despotism was

envenomed by plebeian envy, and the heroes of Athens

might sometimes applaud the happiness of the Persian,

whose fate depended on the caprice of a single tyrant.

Some salutary restraints, imposed by the people on their

own passions, were at once the cause and effect of the

gravity and temperance of the Romans. The right of

accusation was confined to the magistrates. A vote of

the thirty-five tribes could inflict a fine: but the cogni­

sance of all natural crimes was reserved by a fundamental

law to the assembly of the centuries, in which the weight

of influence and property was sure to preponderate. Re­

peated proclamations and adjournments were interposed,

to allow time for prejudice and resentment to subside;

the whole proceeding might be annulled by a seasonable

omen, or the opposition of a tribune; and such popular

trials were commonly less formidable to innocence, than

they were favourable to guilt. But this union of the judi­

cial and legislative powers, left it doubtful whether the ac­

cused party was pardoned or acquitted; and in the defence

of an illustrious client, the orators of Rome and Athens

addressed their arguments to the policy and benevolence,

as well as to the justice, of their sovereign. 2. The task

of convening the citizens for the trial of each offender

became more difficult, as the citizens and the offenders

continually multiplied; and the ready expedient was

adopted of delegating the jurisdiction of the people to

the ordinary magistrates, or to extraordinary inquisitors.

In the first ages these questions were rare and occasional.

In the beginning of the seventh century of Rome they

were made perpetual; for praetors were annually em­

powered to sit in judgment on the state offences of trea­

son, extortion, peculation, and bribery ; and Sylla added

new praetors and new questions for those crimes which

more directly injure the safety of individuals. By these

