CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 6l

and boldness continually increased; and the Heruli, the

.wildest barbarians in the service of the empire, overturned

the priests and their relics, which, from a pious motive,

had been rashly interposed to separate the bloody con­

flict. The tumult was exasperated by this sacrilege, the

people fought with enthusiasm in the cause of God;

the women from the roofs and windows showered stones

on the heads of the soldiers, who darted firebrands

against the houses; and the various flames, which had

been kindled by the hands of citizens and strangers,

spread without control over the face of the city. The con­

flagration involved the cathedral of St. Sophia, the baths

of Zeuxippus, a part of the palace from the first entrance

to the altar of Mars, and the long portico from the palace

to the forum of Constantine; a large hospital, with the

sick patients, was consumed ; many churches and stately

edifices were destroyed, and an immense treasure of gold

and silver was either melted or lost. From such scenes

of horror and distress, the wise and wealthy citizens es­

caped over the Bosphorus to the Asiatic side ; and, during

five days, Constantinople was abandoned to the factions,

whose watchword, Nik a, vanquish ! has given a name to

this memorable sedition/

As long as the factions were divided, the triumphant The di«-

blues, and desponding greens, appeared to behold with jujunUn.

the same indifference the disorders of the state. They

agreed to censure the corrupt management of justice and

the finance; and the two responsible ministers, the artful

Tribonian, and the rapacious John of Cappadocia, were

loudly arraigned as the authors of the public misery.

The peaceful murmurs of the people would have been

disregarded; they were heard with respect when the city

was in flames; the quaestor, and the prefect, were in­

stantly removed, and their offices were filled by two

'The history of the Nika sedition is extracted from Marcelliims, (in Chroo.)

Proct>pios,(Persic. lib. 1.e. 26) John Malala, (tom. 2. p. 213 c. 218.)Chron.
Paschal,

(p. 336—340.) Theophaqcs, (Chronograph, p. 151—158.) and Zonaras. (lib. 14.

p. 61—63.) . .

