CHAP. XLI.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of cavalry, which adopted the name of their benefactor,

and supported in the Persian wars the glory of their an­

cestors. But these rare exceptions, the reward of birth

i or valour, are insufficient to explain the fate of a nation,

whose numbers, before a short and bloodless war,

amounted to more than six hundred thousand persons.

After the exile of their king and nobles, the servile crowd

might purchase their safety, by abjuring their character,

religion, and language; and their degenerate posterity

would be insensibly mingled with the common herd of

African subjects. Yet even in the present age, and in

the heart of the Moorish tribes, a curious traveller has

discovered the white complexion and long flaxen hair of

a northern race ;m and it was formerly believed, that the

boldest of the Vandals fled beyond the power, or even

the knowledge, of the Romans, to enjoy their solitary

freedom on the shores of the Atlantic ocean." Africa

had been their empire, it became their prison; nor could

they entertain a hope, or even a wish, of returning to

the banks of the Elbe, where their brethren, of a spirit

less adventurous, still wandered in their native forests.

It was impossible for cowards to surmount the barriers

of unknown seas and hostile barbarians: it was impos­

sible for brave men to expose their nakedness and defeat

before the eyes of their countrymen, to describe the

kingdoms which they had lost, and to claim a share of

the humble inheritance, which, in a happier hour, they

had almost unanimously renounced." In the country

between the Elbe and the Oder, several populous villages

of Lusatia are inhabited by the Vandals: they still pre­

serve their language, their customs, and the purity of

m Shaw, p. 59. Vet since Procopius (lib. 2. o. 13.) speaks of a people of
mount

Atlas, as already distinguished by white bodies and yellow hair, the
phenomenon

(which is likewise visible in the Andes of Peru, Buffon, tom. 3. p. 504.) may
natu­

rally be ascribed to the elevation of the ground and the temperature ofthe
air.

» The geographer of Ravenna (lib. 3. c. 11. p. 129—131. Paris, 1688.)
describes

Ihe Mauritania Gaditana, (opposite to Cadiz,) uhi gens Vandaloram, a
Belisariode-

victa in Africa, fugit, et nunquamcomparnit.'

° A single voice had protested, and Genserio dismissed, without a formal
answer,

ihe Vandals of Germany: but those of Africa derided his prudence, and effected
to

despise the poverty of their forests. (Procopius, Vandal, lib. 1. c. 22.)

