DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

mankind: perhaps she inflamed, at first by modest de­

lays, and at last by sensual allurements, the desires of a

lover, who from nature or devotion was addicted to long

vigils and abstemious diet. When his first transports

had subsided, she still maintained the same ascendant

over his mind, by the more solid merit of temper and

understanding. Justinian delighted to ennoble and en­

rich the object of his affection; the treasures of the east

were poured at her feet, and the nephew of Justin was

determined, perhaps by religious scruples, to bestow on

his concubine the sacred and legal character of a wife.

But the laws of Rome expressly prohibited the marriage

of a senator with any female who had been dishonoured

by a servile origin or theatrical profession: the empress

Lupicina, or Euphemia, a barbarian of rustic manners,

but of irreproachable virtue, refused to accept a prosti­

tute for her niece: and even Vigilantia, the supersti­

tious mother of Justinian, though she acknowledged

the wit and beauty of Theodora, was seriously appre­

hensive, lest the levity and arrogance of that artful para­

mour might corrupt the piety and happiness of her so»>

These obstacles were removed by the inflexible constancy

of Justinian. He patiently expected the death of the

empress; he despised the tears of his mother, who soon

sunk under the weight of her affliction; and a law was

promulgated in the name of the emperor Justin, which

abolished the rigid jurisprudence of antiquity* A glo­

rious repentance (the words of the edict) was left open

for the unhappy females who had prostituted their per­

sons on the theatre, and they were permitted to contract

a legal union with the most illustrious of the Romans.0

This indulgence was speedily followed by the solemn

nuptials of Justinian and Theodora; her dignity was

gradually exalted with that of her lover; and, as soon as

e See Ibe old law in Justinian's Code, (lib. 5. tit. 5. leg. 7. tit. lVJ. leg.
1.) under

.the years 336 and 454. The new edict (about the year 5SJ1 or btt. Aloman. p.
38.

•96.) very awkwardly repeals no more than the clause of mulicres scen'tcje,
libtrtina?,

Ubernariae. See the novels til) and 117, and a Creek rescript from Jusliniaii
to the

hishops. (Aleniau. p. 41.)

