CMAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 44Q

weakness; and even the modest language of his reply

still left room for treaty and reconciliation. Chosroes led

into the field the slaves of the palace and the populace of

the capital: they beheld with terror the banners of a ve­

teran army; they were encompassed and surprised by the

evolutions of the general; and the satraps who had de­

posed Hormouz, received the punishment of their revolt,

or expiated their first treason by a second and more cri­

minal act of disloyalty. The life and liberty of Chos­

roes were saved, but he was reduced to the necessity of

imploring aid or refuge in some foreign land; and the

implacable Bindoes, anxious to secure an unquestionable

title, hastily returned to the palace, and ended, with a D<*n» of

bow-string, the wretched existence of the son of Nushir- a. d. 590.

van.p

While Chosroes despatched the preparations of his re- cbosroe.

treat, he deliberated with his remaining friends,q whether Rom.,

he should lurk in the valleys of mount Caucasus, or fly

to the tents of the Turks, or solicit the protection of the

emperor. The long emulation of the successors of Ar-

taxerxes and Constantine increased his reluctance to ap­

pear as a suppliant in a rival court; but he weighed the

forces of the Romans, and prudently considered, that the

neighbourhood of Syria would render his escape more

easy, and their succours more effectual. Attended only

by his concubines, and a troop of thirty guards, he se­

cretly departed from the capital, followed the banks of

the Euphrates, traversed the desert, and halted at the

distance of ten miles from Circesium. About the third

\vatch of the night, the Roman prefect was informed of

his approach, and he introduced the royal stranger to the

P Theophylact (lib. 4. c. 7.) imputes the death of Hormonz to his son, by
whose

command he was beaten to death with clubs. I bare followed Hie milder account
of

Khondemir and Eutychius, and shall ajways be content with the slightest
evidence

to extenuate the crime of parricide.

i After the battle of Pharsalia, the Pompey of Luean (lib.. 8. 256—455.) holds
a

similar debate. He was himself desirous of seeking the Parthians ; bat his
compa­

nions abhorred the unnatural alliance; and the adverse prejudices might
operate as

forcibly on Chosroes and his companions, who could describe, with the same
vehe­

mence, the contrast of laws, religion, and manners, between the cast aud nest.

