CHAP. XtlV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 935

every citizen conscious of his abilities and knowledge.

The discretion of the prastor was now governed by the

lessons of his teachers; the judges were enjoined to

obey the comment as well as the text of the law; and

the use of codicils was a memorable innovation, which

Augustus ratified by the advice of the civilians.p

'The most absolute mandate could only require that Sects,

the judges shouldagree with the civilians, if the civilians

agreed "among themselves. But positive institutions are

often the result of custom and prejudice; laws and lan­

guage are ambiguous and arbitrary; where reason is in­

capable of pronouncing, the love of argument is inflamed

by the envy of rivals, the vanity of masters, the blind

attachment of their disciples: and the Roman jurispru­

dence was divided by the once famous sects of the Pro-

culians and Sabinians.'* Two sages of the law, Ateius

Capito and Antistius Labeo/ adorned the peace of the

Augustan age: the former distinguished by the favour

pf his sovereign; the latter more illustrious by his con­

tempt of that favour, and his stern though harmless op­

position to the tyrant of Rome. Their legal studies were

influenced by the various colours of their temper and

principles. Labeo was attached to the form of the old

republic; his rival embraced the more profitable sub­

stance of the rising monarchy. But the disposition of a

courtier is tame and submissive; and Capito seldom pre­

sumed to deviate from the sentiments, or at least from

■the words, of his predecessors: while the bold republi­

can pursued his independent ideas without fear of para-

P See Pomponius, (de Origine Juris Pandect, lib. 1. tit. 2. leg. 2. no. 47.)
Hei-

heccius, (ad Iustitut. lib. 1. tit. 2. no. 8. lib. 2. tit. 25. in Element. et
Antiquitat.)

and Gravina. (p. 41—15.) Yet the monopoly of Augustus, a harsh measure,would

appear with some softening in the contemporary evidence; and it was prohably
veil­

ed by a decree of the senate.

1.1 have perused the diatribe of Gotfridas Mascovius, the learned Mascou, de

Sectis Jurisconsultorum, (Lipsiae, 1728, in 12mo. p. 270 ) a learned treatise
on a

narrow and harren ground. ''

r Seethe character of Anlistius Labeo in Tacitus, (Annal. 3. 75.) and in an
epis­

tle of Ateius Capito, (Aul. Gellius, 13. 12.) who accuses his rival oflibertas
nimia et

Vecors. Yet Horace woutd not have lashed a virtuous and respectable senator ;
and

I must adopt the emendation of Bootley, who reads Lahieuo insanior. (Serin,
lib. 3.

82.) See Mascou,'de Sectis. (c. 1. p. 1—24.)

