CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 271

if the wisdom of Belisarius had not been defeated by the

misconduct of his officers. He had previously sent or­

ders to Bessas to second his operations by a timely sally

from the town; and he had fixed his lieutenant, Isaac,

by a peremptory command, to the station of the port.

But avarice rendered Bessas immoveable; while the

youthful ardour of Isaac delivered him into the hands of

a superior enemy. The exaggerated rumour of his de­

feat was hastily carried to the ears of Belisarius: he

paused; betrayed in that single moment of his life some

emotions of surprise and perplexity; and reluctantly

sounded a retreat to save his wife Antonina, his trea­

sures, and the only harbour which he possessed on the

Tuscan coast. The vexation of his mind produced an

ardent and almost mortal fever; and Rome was left with­

out protection to the mercy or indignation of Totila.

The continuance of hostilities had embittered the na­

tional hatred, the Arian clergy was ignominkmsly driven

from Rome; Pelagius, the archdeacon, returned with­

out success from an embassy to the Gothic camp; and

a Sicilian bishop, the envoy or nuncio of the pope, was

deprived of both his hands, for daring to utter falsehoods

in the service of the church and state.

Famine had relaxed the strength and discipline of the Ra™

takeo by

garrison at Rome. They could derive no effectual ser- the Goths,

vice from a dying people; and the inhuman avarice of Dee. iff6'

the merchant at length absorbed the vigilance of the go­

vernor. Four Isaurian sentinels, while their companions

slept, and their officers were absent, descended by a rope

from the wall, and secretly proposed to the Gothic king

to introduce his troops into the city. The offer was en­

tertained with coldness and suspicion; they returned in

safety; they twice repeated their visit; the place was

twice examined; the conspiracy was known and disre­

garded; and no sooner- had Totila consented to the

attempt, than they unbarred the Asinarian gate, and

gave admittance to the Goths. Till the dawn of day they

