CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. HQ

moted to military command. After a bold inroad into

Persarmenia, in which his glory was shared by a col­

league, and his progress was checked by an enemy, Be-

lisarius repaired to the important station ofDara, where

he first accepted the service of Procopius, the faithful Hi»

• 111 r f oes lu

companion, and diligent historian, of his exploits. The Persian

Mirranes of Persia advanced, with forty thousand of her a"d. 5*9

best troops, to raise the fortifications of Dara; and sig- ~"53i'

nified the day and the hour on which the citizens should

prepare a bath for his refreshment after the toils of vic­

tory. He encountered an adversary equal to himself, by

the new title of general of the east; his superior in the

science of war, but much inferior in the number and

quality of his troops, which amounted only to twenty-

five thousand Romans and strangers, relaxed in their

discipline, and humbled by recent disasters. As the le­

vel plain of Dara refused all shelter to stratagem and

ambush, Belisarius protected his front with a deep trench,

which was prolonged at first in perpendicular, and after­

ward in parallel, lines, to cover the wings of cavalry,

and advantageously posted to command the flanks and

rear of the enemy. When the Roman centre was shaken,

their well-timed and rapid charge decided the conflict:

the standard of Persia fell; the immortals fled; the in­

fantry threw away their bucklers, and eight thousand of

the vanquished were left on the field of battle. In the

next campaign, Syria was invaded on the side of the de­

sert; and Belisarius, with twenty thousand men, hast­

ened from Dara to the relief of the province. During

the whole summer, the designs of the enemy were baf­

fled by his skilful dispositions: he pressed their retreat,

occupied each night their camp of the preceding day,

and would have secured a bloodless victory, if he could

have resisted the impatience of his own troops. Their

valiant promise was faintly supported in the hour of bat­

tle; the right wing was exposed by the treacherous or

'The two first Persian campaigns of Belisarius are fairly and copiousl}'
related by

his secretary. (Persic. lib. U c. 12—18.)

