DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. XLII.

respected, the religion of the Magi; and some traces of

persecution may be discovered in his reign/ Yet he

allowed himself freely to compare the tenets of the vari­

ous sects; and the theological disputes in which he fre­

quently presided, diminished the authority of the priest,

and enlightened the minds of the people. At his com­

mand, the most celebrated writers of Greece and India

were translated into the Persian language; a smooth

and elegant idiom, recommended by Mahomet to the

use of paradise; though it is branded with the epithets of

savage and unmusical, by the ignorance and presumption

of Agathias.s Yet the Greek historian might reason­

ably wonder, that it should be found possible to execute

an entire version of Plato and Aristotle in a foreign dia­

lect, which had not been framed to express the spirit of

freedom and the subtleties of philosophic disquisition.

And, if the reason of the Stagyrite might be equally

dark, or equally intelligible, in every tongue, the drama­

tic art and verbal argumentation of the disciple of So­

crates,11 appear to be indissolubly mingled with the grace

and perfection of his Attic style. In the search of uni­

versal knowledge, Nushirvan was informed, that the mo­

ral and political fables of Pilpay, an ancient Brachman,

were preserved with jealous reverence among the trea­

sures of the kings of India. The physician Perozes was

secretly dispatched to the banks of the Ganges, with in­

structions to procure, at any price, the communication

of this valuable work. His dexterity obtained a tran­

script, his learned diligence accomplished the translation;

and the fables of Pilpay1 were read and admired in the

1 See Pagi, torn. 2. p. 626. Ia one of Ihe treaties au honourable article was
in­

serted for the toleration and burial of the Catholics. (Menander, in Excerpt.
Legat.

p. 142.) Nnsbizad, a son of Nushirvan, was a Christian, a rebel, and—a martyr?

(D'Herbelot, p. 681.)

K On the Persian language, and its three dialects, consult d'Anquetil (p. 339—

343.) and Jones: (p. 153—185.) aypia. rm yXurrri xm a^woua-oTaTa', is the
character

which Agathias (lib. 2. p. 66.) ascribes to an idiom renowned iu the east for
poetical

softness.

h Agathias specifies the Gorgias, Pheedon, Parmenides, and Tima us. Renaudot

(Fabricius, Bibliot. Grasc. torn. 12. p. 246—261.) does not mention this
barbaric ver-

. aion of Aristotle.

'Of these fables, I have seen three copies in three different languages.—1. In

