CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 189

deplorable state. They compared the fame and fortune

of Belisarius with the weakness of their ill-fated king;

and the comparison suggested an extraordinary project,

to which Vitiges, with apparent resignation, was com­

pelled to acquiesce. Partition would ruin the strength,

exile would disgrace the honour, of the nation ; but they

offered their arms, their treasures, and the fortifications

of Ravenna, if Belisarius would disclaim the authority of

a master, accept the choice of the Goths, and assume,

as he had deserved, the kingdom of Italy. If the false

lustre of a diadem could have tempted the loyalty of a

faithful subject, his prudence must have foreseen the in^

constancy of the barbarians, and his rational ambition

would prefer the safe and honourable station of a Roman

general. Even the patience and seeming satisfaction

with which he entertained a proposal of treason, might

be susceptible of a malignant interpretation. But the

lieutenant of Justinian was conscious of his own recti­

tude: he entered into a dark and crooked path, as it

might lead to the voluntary submission of the Goths;

and his dexterous policy persuaded them that he was dis­

posed to comply with their wishes, without engaging an

oath or a promise for the performance of a treaty which

he secretly abhorred. The day of the surrender of Ra­

venna was stipulated by the Gothic ambassadors: a fleet,

laden with provisions, sailed as a welcome guest into the

deepest recess of the harbour r the gates were opened to Subdues

the fancied king of Italy ; and Belisarius, without meet- kingdom"

ing an enemy, triumphantly marched through the streets a/d^o

of an impregnable city.q The Romans were astonished December,

by their success; the multitude of tall and robust barba­

rians were confounded by the image of their own pa­

tience; and the masculine females, spitting in the faces

of their sons and husbands, most bitterly reproached

1 Ravenna was taken, not in the 540, but in the latter end of 539; and Pagi
(torn.

2. p. 569.) is rectified by Muratori,(Annali d'ltalia, torn. 5. p. 62.) who
proves, from

an original act on papyrus, (Antiquit. Italia Medii jEvi, torn. 2. dissert.
32. p. 999—

1007. Mafiei, Istoria Diplomat, p. 155—160.) that before the 3d of January,
540,

peace and free correspondence were restored between Ravenna and Fnenza. _ .

