CHAP. XLIIl.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2QQ

dogs and vultures; a crowd of rustics, imploring food

and protection, increased the consternation of the city,

and the tents of Zabergan were pitched at the distance

of twenty miles,q on the banks of a small river, which

encircles Melanthias, and afterward falls into the Pro-

pontis/ Justinian trembled: and those who had only

seen the emperor in his old age, were pleased to suppose,

that he had lost the alacrity and vigour of his youth.

By his command, the vessels of gold and silver were re­

moved from the churches in the neighbourhood, and

even the suburbs of Constantinople: the ramparts were

lined with trembling spectators: the golden gate was"

crowded with useless generals and tribunes, and the se­

nate shared the fatigues and the apprehensions of the

populace.

But the eyes of the prince and people were directed to'Last »io- .

a feeble veteran, who was compelled by the public dan-'BetLriu.

ger to resume the armour in which he had entered Car­

thage and defended Rome. The horses of the royal

stables, of private citizens, and even of the circus, were

hastily collected; the emulation of the old and young

was roused by the name of Belisarius, and his first en­

campment was in the presence of a victorious enemy. His!

prudence, and the labour of the friendly peasants, se­

cured, with a ditch and rampart, the repose of the night:

innumerable fires, and clouds of dust, were artfully con­

trived to magnify the opinion of his strength: his soldiers

suddenly passed frOm despondency to presumption ; and

while ten thousand voices demanded the battle, Belisarius

dissembled his knowledge, that in the hour of trial he

must depend on the firmness of three hundred veterans.

1 The distance from Constantinople to Melanthias* Villa Caesariana, (Ammian.

Marcellin. 30. 11.) is variously fixed at one hundred and two, or one hundred
and

forty stadia, (Suidas, torn. 2; p. 522, 523. Agathias, lib. 5. p. 158.) or
eighteen or

nineteen miles. (Itineraria, p. 138. 230. 323. 332. and Wesseling's
Observations.),

The first twelve miles, as far as Rhegium, were paved by Justinian, who built
a

bridge over a morass or gullet between a lake and the sea. (Procop. de Edif.
lib. 4.

c. 8.)

r The Atyras. (Pompon. Mela, lib. 2. o. 2. p. 169. edit. Voss.) At the riverV

mouth, a town or caMle of the same name was fortified by Justinian* (Procop.
de

Edif. lib. 4. c. 2. Itlnerar. p. 570. and Wesseling.)

X 1

