DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL II

was covered by fifteen hundred chosen horse, destined,

according to the emergencies of action, to sustain the re­

treat of their friends, or to encompass the flank of the

enemy. From his proper station at the head of the right

wing, the eunuch rode along the line, expressing by his

voice and countenance the assurance of victory; exciting

the soldiers of the emperor to punish the guilt and mad­

ness of a band of robbers; and exposing to their view,

gold chains, collars, and bracelets, the rewards of military

virtue. From the event of a single combat, they drew

an omen of success; and they beheld with pleasure the

courage of fifty archers, who maintained a small emi­

nence against three successive attacks of the Gothic ca­

valry. At the distance only of two bow-shots, the ar­

mies spent the morning in dreadful suspense, and the Ro­

mans tasted some necessary food, without unloosening

the cuirass from their breast, or the bridle from their

horses. Narses awaited the charge; and it was delayed

by Totila till he had received his last succours of two

thousand Goths. While he consumed the hours in

fruitless treaty, the king exhibited in a narrow space the

strength and agility of a warrior. His armour was en­

chased with gold; his purple banner floated with the

wind; he cast his lance into the air; caught it with the

right hand; shifted it to the left; threw himself back­

wards; recovered his seat; and managed a fiery steed in

all the paces and evolutions of the equestrian school.

As soon as the succours had arrived, he retired to his

tent, assumed the dress and arms of a private soldier,

and gave the signal of battle. The first line of cavalry

advanced with more courage than discretion, and left be­

hind them the infantry of the second line. They were

soon engaged between the horns of a crescent, into which

the adverse wings had been insensibly curved, and were

saluted from either side by the volleys of four thousand

archers. Their ardour, and even their distress, drove

them forwards to a close and unequal conflict, in which

