CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

to ashes in the port of Syracuse by the burning-glasses

of Archimedes ;0 and it is asserted, that a similar expe­

dient was employed by Proclus to destroy the Gothic

vessels in the harbour of Constantinople, and to protect

his benefactor Anastasius against the bold enterprise of

Vitalian.d A machine was fixed on the walls of the city,

consisting of an hexagon mirror of polished brass, with

many smaller and moveable polygons to receive and re­

flect the rays of the meridian sun; and a consuming

flame was darted, to the distance, perhaps, of two hun­

dred feet.6 The truth of these two extraordinary facts

is invalidated by the silence of the most authentic his­

torians; and the use of burning-glasses was never adopt­

ed in the attack or defence of places/ Yet the admir­

able experiments of a French philosopher5 have demon­

strated the possibility of such a mirror; and, since it is

possible, I am more disposed to attribute the art to the

greatest mathematicians of antiquity, than to give the

merit of the fiction to the idle fancy of a monk or a so­

phist. According to another story, Proclus applied sul­

phur to the destruction of the Gothic fleet :h in a

modern imagination, the name of sulphur is instantly

connected with the suspicion of gunpowder, and that

c This conflagration is hinted by Lucian, (in Hippia, c. 2.) and Galen, (lib.
S. de

temperamentis, ton). 1. p. 81. edit. Bazil.) in the second century. A thousand
years

afterward, it is positively affirmed by Zonaras, (lib. 9. p. 424.) on the
faith of Dion

Cassias, by Tzetzes, (Chiliad 2. 119. &c.) Eustathius, (ad Iliad E. p. 338.)
and the

scholiast of Lucian. See Fabricins, (Bibliot. Oreo, lib. 3. o. 23. torn. 1. p.
551,553.)

lo whom I am more or leas indebted for several of these quotations.

d Zonaras (lib. 14. p. 55.) affirms the fact, without quoting any evidence.

e Tzetzes describes the artifioe of these burning glasses, which he had read,
per­

haps with no learned eyes, in a mathematical treatise of Antheniius. That
treatise,

<stft •jrct^a.io^an fAu^avrtf^ATW, has been lately published, translated, and
illustrated,

by M. Dupuys, a scholar and a mathematician. (Memoirs de I'Academie des
Inscrip­

tions, torn. 42. p. 392—451.)

f In the siege of Syracuse, bythe silence ofPoIybius, Plntarch, Livy; in the
siege

of Constantinople, by that of Marcellinus, and all the contemporaries of the
sixth

century.

t Without any previous knowledge of Tzetzes or Antheniius, the immortal Button

imagined and executed a set of burning-glasses, with which he could inflame
planks

at the distance of two hundred feet. (Supplement a l'Hist. Naturelle, torn. 1.
p.

389—483. quarto edition.) What miracles would not his genius have performed

for the public service, with royal expense, and in the strong sun of
Constantinople

or Syracuse!

k John Malala (torn. 3. p. 120—124.) relates the fact: but he seems to
confuund

the names or persons of Proclu* and Marinus.

