34 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

excited by avarice, and, as he complains, encouraged by

impunity. In these honourable contests, his spirit soared

above the consideration of danger, and perhaps of pru­

dence; and we may learn, from the example of Cato,

that a character of pure and inflexible virtue is the most

apt to be misled by prejudice, to be heated by enthusiasm,

and to confound private enmities with public justice.

The disciple of Plato might exaggerate the infirmities of

nature, and the imperfections of society; and the mild­

est form of a Gothic kingdom, even the weight of alle­

giance and gratitude, must be insupportable to the free

spirit of a Roman patriot. But the favour and fidelity

of Boethius declined in just proportion with the pubKc

happiness; and an unworthy colleague was imposed, to

divide and control the power of the master of the of­

fices. In the last gloomy season of Theodoric, he indig­

nantly felt that he was a slave; but as his master had

only power over his life, he stood without arms and

without fear against the face of an angry barbarian, who

had been provoked to believe that the safety of the se-

Heisac- nate was incompatible with his own. The senator Al-

treastpf binus was accused, and already convicted, on the pre­

sumption of hoping, as it was said, the liberty of Rome.

"If Albinus be criminal (exclaimed the orator), the se­

nate and myself are all guilty of the same crime. If we

are innocent, Albinus is equally entitled to the protec­

tion of the laws." These laws might not have punished

the simple and barren wish of an unattainable blessing;

but they would have shewn less indulgence to the rash

confession of Boethius, that, had he known of a conspi­

racy, the tyrant never should.1" The advocate of Albinus

was soon involved in the danger, and perhaps the guilt,

of his client; their signature (which they denied as a

forgery) was affixed to the original address, inviting the

emperor to deliver Italy from the Goths; and three wit-

b Si ego scissem tu nescisses. Boethius adopts this answer (lib. 1. pros. 4.
p. 53.)

of Julius Cuius, whose philosophic death is described bj Seneca. (De
Tranquillltate

Animi. c. 14.)

