CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tesy, both Vitiges and his more noble consort: and as

the king of the Goths conformed to the Athanasian

faith, he obtained, with a rich inheritance of lands in

Asia, the rank of senator and patrician.5 Every specta­

tor admired, without peril, the strength and stature of

the young barbarians: they adored the strength and ma­

jesty of the throne, and promised to shed their blood in

the service of their benefactor. Justinian deposited in the

Byzantine palace the treasures of the Gothic monarchy.

A flattering senate was sometimes admitted to gaze on

the magnificent spectacle; but it was enviously secluded

from the public view; and the conqueror of Italy re­

nounced, without a murmur, perhaps without a sigh, the

well-earned honours of a second triumph. His glory

was indeed exalted above all external pomp; and the

faint and hollow praises of the court were supplied, even

in a servile age, by the respect and admiration of his

country. Whenever he appeared in the streets and

public places of Constantinople, Belisarius attracted and

satisfied the eyes of the people. His lofty stature and

majestic countenance fulfilled their expectations of a

hero; the meanest of his fellow-citizens were embolden­

ed by his gentle and gracious demeanour; and the mar­

tial train, which attended his footsteps, left his person

more accessible than in a day of battle. Seven thousand

horsemen, matchless for beauty and valour, were main­

tained in the service, and at the private expense of the

general.' Their prowess was always conspicuous in sin­

gle combats, or in the foremost ranks; and both parties

confessed, that in the siege of Rome, the guards of Be­

lisarius had alone vanquished the barbarian host. Their

numbers were continually augmented by the bravest and

^ Vitiges lived Iwo years at Constantinople, and imperatoris in affectu
convictm

(or conjunctas) rehas excessit homanis. His widow, Mathasuenta, the wife and
mo­

ther of the patricians, the elder and younger Germanns, united the streams of
Anician

and Amali blood. (Jornandes, c. 60. p. 221, in Moratori,tom^l.)

1 Procopius, Goth. lib. 3. c. 1. Atmoin, a French monk of the eleventh
century,

who had obtained, and has disfigured, some authentic information of
Belisarius, men­

tions,in his name, twelve thousandpueri or slaves—quospropriis alimus
stipendiis—

besides eighteen thousand noldiers. (Historians of France, tom. 3. De Gcstis
Fran«.

lib. 2. c. 6. p. 48.)

