CHAP. XL.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 105

and heroes to mankind. Both these institutions had

long since degenerated from their primitive glory; yet

some reproach may be justly inflicted on the avarice and

jealousy of a prince, by whose hands such venerable ruins

were destroyed.

Athens, after her Persian triumphs, adopted the phi- T*A|j;'1001*

losophy of Ionia and the rhetoric of Sicily; and these

studies became the patrimony of a city whose inhabitants,

about thirty thousand males, condensed, within the pe­

riod of a single life, the genius of ages and millions.

Our sense of the dignity of human nature is exalted by

the simple recollection, that Isocrates6 was the companion

of Plato and Xenophon; that he assisted, perhaps with

the historian Thucydides, at the first representations of

the CEdipus of Sophocles and the Iphigenia of Euripi­

des; and that his pupils iEschines and Demosthenes

contended for the crown of patriotism in the presence

of Aristotle, the master of Theophrastus, who taught at

Athens with the founders of the Stoic and Epicurean

sects/ The ingenious youth of Attica enjoyed the be­

nefits of their domestic education, which was communi­

cated without envy to the rival cities. Two thousand dis­

ciples heard the lessons of Theophrastus;8 the schools of

rhetoric must have been still more populous than those

of philosophy; and a rapid succession of students dif­

fused the fame of their teachers, as far as the utmost

limits of the Grecian language and name. Those limits

were enlarged by the victories of Alexander; the arts

of Athens survived her freedom and dominion; and

the Greek colonies, which the Macedonians planted in

Egypt, and scattered over Asia, undertook long and fre -

'The life of Isocrates extends from Olymp. 86. 1. to 110. 3. (ante Christ.
43(i—•

438.) See Dionys. Halioarn. torn. 2. p. 149, 150. edit. Hndson; Plutarch (sive

anonymous) in Vit. X. Oratornm, p. 1538—1543. edit. II. Steph. Phot. cod. 259.

p. 1453.

f The schools of Alliens are copiously, thotigh concisely, represented in the
Fortn-

.na Attica of Meursins. (c. 8. p. 59—73. in torn. 1. Opp.) For the state and
ai ts of

the city, see the first book of Pausanias, and a small tract of Dicaearchns
(in the se­

cond volame of Hudson's Geographers), who wrote'abont Olymp. 117* Dodwelt's

Djssei tat. seel. 4.

t Diogeit. Laerl. dc Vit. Phiks >pli.l. v. segra. 37v p. 289.

VOL. V. I

