646 DECLINE AND FALL ([CHAP. XXIV.

Legal in- ft is the first care of a reformer to prevent any future

of Justi- reformation. To maintain the text of the Pandects, the

,mt" Institutes, and the Code, the use of ciphers and abbrevia­

tions was rigorously proscribed; and as Justinian recol­

lected, that the perpetual edict had been buried under the

weight of commentators, he denounced the punishment

of forgery against the rash civilians who should presume

to interpret or pervert the will of their sovereign. The

scholars of Accursius, of Bartolus, of Cujacius, should

blush for their accumulated guilt, unless they dare to dis­

pute his right of binding the authority of his successors,

iand the native freedom of the mind. But ifee. emperor

was unable to fix his own inconstancy; and, while he

boasted of renewing the exchange of Diomede, of trans*

muting brass into gold,* he discovered the necessity of

Second purifying his gold from the mixture of baser alloy, Si$

the' Code! had not elapsed from the publication of the Code,

• ^^jg34' before he condemned the imperfect attempt, by a new

and more accurate edition of the same work, which he

•enriched with two hundred of his own laws, and fifty de­

cisions of the darkest and more intricate points of jurisr

prudence. Every year, or, according to Procopius, each

day of his long reign, was marked by some legal innova­

tion. Many of his acts were rescinded by himself; ma­

ny were rejected by his successors, many have been oblir

teratedby time; but the number of sixteen edicts, and

The Novels1one hundred and sixty-eight note LS,b has been admitted

into the authentic body of the civil jurisprudence. In

the opinion of a philosopher, superior to the prejudices,

of his profession, these incessant, and for the most part

trifling, alterations, can be only explained by the venal

■a Xgwsa ^aXxEwv, EXirojujSot EVVEa0oK»v,apud Ifumeruni patrem omnis virtutis,
(1st

.Praifat. ad Pandect.) A line of 'Milton or Tasso would surprise us io au act
of •par­

liament. Quae omnia obtinere sanctmus in omne aevum. Of the first code, he
says,

.'(2d Pracfat.) in aeternum valiturum. Man and for evert

b Noveliae is a classic adjective, but a harharous substantive, (Ludewig. p.
245.)

Justinian never collected them himself: the nine collations, the 'legal
standard of

modern tribunals, consists of ninety-eight novels; but the number was
increased by

the diligence of Julian, Haloander, and Coutius. (Ludewig, p. 249. 258.
Aleman.

Not. in Anecdot. p. 98.)

a:

—565.

