368 DfeCXINE AND FALX [CHAP. XLIII.

guards. Before I can take the field, I must receive an

adequate supply of light and heavy-armed troops; and it

is only with ready money that you can procure the in­

dispensable aid of a powerful body of the cavalry of the

Huns."1 An officer, in whom Belisarius confided, was

sent from Ravenna to hasten and conduct the succours;

but the message was neglected, and the messenger was

detained at Constantinople by an advantageous marriage.

After his patience had been exhausted by delay and dis­

appointment, the Roman general repassed the Hadriatic,

and expected at Dyrrachium the arrival of the troops,

which were slowly assembled among the subjects and al­

lies of the empire. His powers were still inadequate to

the deliverance of Rome, which was closely besieged by

the Gothic king. The Appian way, a march of forty

days, was covered by the barbarians; and as the pru­

dence of Belisarius declined a battle, he preferred the

safe and speedy navigation of five days from the coast of

Epirus to the mouth of the Tiber.

Rome be- After reducing, by force or treaty, the towns of infe-

the Goth*, rior note in the midland provinces of Italy, Totila pro-

May. 546' ceeded, not to assault, but to encompass and starve, the

ancient capital. Rome was afflicted by the avarice, and

guarded by the valour, of Bessas, a veteran chief of Go­

thic extraction, who filled, with a garrison of three thou­

sand soldiers, the spacious circle of her venerable walls.

From the distress of the people he extracted a profitable

trade, and secretly rejoiced in the continuance of the

siege. It was for his use that the granaries had been re­

plenished; the charity of pope Vigili us had purchased

and embarked an ample supply of Sicilian corn; but

the vessels which escaped the barbarians were seized by a

rapacious governor, who imparted a scanty sustenance to

the soldiers, and sold the remainder to the wealthy Ro­

mans. The medimnus, or fifth part of the quarter of

1 Procopius, lib. 3. c;12. The soul of a hero is deeply impressed on the
letter:

nor can we confound such genuine and original acts with the elaborate and
often

empty speeches of the Byzantine historians.

