DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

and secretly firing the granaries" of a besieged city.p

While he pressed the blockade of Ravenna, he was

surprised by the arrival of two ambassadors from Con­

stantinople, with a treaty of peace, which Justinian had

imprudently signed, without deigning to consult the

author of his victory. By this disgraceful and precarious

agreement, Italy and the Gothic treasure were divided,

and the provinces beyond the Po were left with the regal

title to the successor of Theodoric. The ambassadors

were eager to accomplish their salutary commission ; the

captive Vitiges accepted, with transport, the unexpected

offer of a crown; honour was less prevalent among the

Goths, than the want and appetite of food; and the Ro­

man chiefs, who murmured at the continuance of the

war, professed implicit submission to the commands of

the emperor. If Belisarius had possessed only the cou­

rage of a soldier, the laurel would have been snatched

from his hand by timid and envious counsels; but, in

this decisive moment, he resolved, with the magnanimity

of a statesman, to sustain alone the danger and merit of

generous disobedience. Each of his officers gave a writ­

ten opinion, that the siege of Ravenna was impracticable

and hopeless: the general then rejected the treaty of

partition, and declared his own resolution of leading Vi­

tiges in chains to the feet of Justinian. The Goths re­

tired with doubt and dismay: this peremptory refusal de­

prived them of the only signature which they could trust,

and filled their minds with a just apprehension, that a

sagacious enemy had discovered the full extent of their

derns aygssrof. Yet both words are used as synonymous in Galen, Dioscorides,
and

Locian. (Hen. Steph. Thesaur. Ling. Graec. torn. 3. p. 748.)

° The Goths suspected Mathasuintha as an accomplice in the mischief, which
per­

haps was occasioned by accidental lightning.

P In strict philosophy, a limitation of the rights of war seems to imply
nonsense

and contradiction. Grotius himself is lost in an idle distinction between the
jas' na­

turae and the jus gentium, between poison and infection. He balances in one
scale the

passages of Homer, (Otlyss. A. 259, &c.) and Florus; (lib. 2. c. 20. no. 7.
alt.) and

in the other, the examples of Solon (Pausanias, lib. 10. c. 37.) and
Belisarius. See his

great work De Jure Belli et Pacis, lib. 3. c. 4. s. 15—17. and in Barbeyrac's
version,

torn. 2. p. 257, &c. Yet I can understand the benefit and validity of an
agreement,

tacit or express, mutually to abstain from certain modes of hostility. See the
Aiu-

phictyouio oath in Kschincs, de Falsa Legatione.

