DECLINE AND FALL [CHA1\ XLV1.

the verge of the two great empires of the east, Mahomet

observed with secret joy the progress of their mutual de­

struction; and in the midst of the Persian triumphs, he

ventured to foretel, that before many years should elapse,

victory would again return to the banners of the Romans.1

At the time when this prediction is said to have been

delivered, no prophecy could be more distant from its ac­

complishment, since the first twelve years of Heraclius

announced the approaching dissolution of the empire.

If the motives of Chosroes had been pure and honour­

able, he must have ended the quarrel with the death of

Phocas, and he would have embraced as his best ally, the

fortunate African who had so generously avenged the in­

juries of his benefactor Maurice. The prosecution of the

war revealed the true character of the barbarian; and the

suppliant embassies of Heraclius to beseech his clemency,

that he would spare the innocent, accept a tribute, and

give peace to the world, were rejected with contemptu­

ous silence or insolent menace. Syria, Egypt, and the

provinces of Asia, were subdued by the Persian arms,

while Europe, from the confines of Istria to the long wall

of Thrace was oppressed by the Avars, unsatiated with

the blood and rapine of the Italian war. They had

coolly massacred their male captives in the sacred field of

Pannonia; the women and children were reduced to ser­

vitude, and the noblest virgins were abandoned to the

promiscuous lust of the barbarians. The amorous ma­

tron who opened the gates of Friuli passed a short night

in the arms of her royal lover; the next evening Romil-

da was condemned to the embraces of twelve Avars, and

the third day the Lombard princess was impaled in the

sight of the camp, while the chagan observed with a cruel

smile, that such a husband was the fit recompense of her

* See the thirtieth chapter of the Koran, entitled the Greeks, Our honest and  
learned translator Sale, (p. 330, 331.) fairly states this conjecture, guess,
wager, of

Mahomet; but Bonlainvilliers, (p. 329—344.) with wicked intentions, labours to
esr

tabliah this evident prophecy of a future event, wliioh must, in his opinion,
embarrass

the Christian polemics.

