DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

Belisarius may be added to the rare examples, of Henry

IV. of Pyrrhus and of Alexander.

After this first and unsuccessful trial of their enemies,

the whole army of the Goths passed the Tiber, and

formed the siege of the city, which continued above a

year, till their final departure. Whatever fancy may

conceive, the severe compass of the geographer defines

the circumference of Rome within a line of twelve miles

and three hundred and forty-five paces ; and that circum­

ference, except in the Vatican, has invariably been the

same from the triumph of Aurelian to the peaceful, but

obscure reign of the modern: popes.*1 But in the day of

her greatness, the space within her walls was crowded

with habitations and inhabitants; and the populous sub-c

urbs, that stretched along the public roads, were darted

like so many rays from one common centre. Adversity

swept away these extraneous ornaments, and left naked

and desolate a considerable part even of the seven hills.

Yet Rome, in its present state, could send into the field

above thirty thousand males, of a military age; ■ and

notwithstanding the want of discipline and exercise, the

far greater part, inured to the hardships of poverty,

might be capable of bearing arms for the defence of

their country and religion. The; prudence of Belisarius

did not neglect this important resource. His soldiers

were relieved by the zeal and diligence of the people, who

watched while they slept, and laboured while they reposed;

he accepted the voluntary service of the bravest and most

indigent of the Roman youth; and the companies of

townsmen sometimes represented, in a vacant post, the

presence of the troops which had been drawn' away to

"M. d'Anville has given, in the Memoirs of the Academy for the year 1756,
(tom,

30. p. 198—236.) a plan of Home on a smaller scale, bat far more, accurate
than that

which he had delineated in 1738 for Rollin's history. Experience had improved
his'

knowledge; and, instead of Rossi's topograpby, he used the new and excellent
map

of Nolli. Pliny's old measure of thirteen must he reduced to eighteen miles.
It is

easier to alter a text, than to remove hills or buildings.

1 In the year 1709, Lahat (Voyages en Italie, tom. 3. p. 218.) reckoned one
hun­

dred and thirty-eight thousand five hundred and sixty-eight Christian souls,
besides

eight or ten thousand Jews—without souls? In the year 1703, the numbers
exceeded

one hundred and sixty thousand.

