CHAP. XLI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 153

tues, she revived the prosperity of his reign: while she

strove, with pious care, to expiate the faults, and to ob­

literate the darker, memory of his declining age. The

children of Boethius and Symmachus were restored to

their paternal inheritance; her extreme lenity never

consented to inflict any corporal or pecuniary penalties

on her Roman subjects; and she generously despised

the clamours of the Goths, who, at the end of forty

years, still considered the people of Italy as their slaves

or their enemies. Her salutary measures were directed

by the wisdom, and celebrated by the eloquence, of Cas-

siodorius; she solicited and deserved the friendship of

the emperor; and the kingdoms of Europe respected,

both in peace and war, the majesty of the Gothic

throne. But the future happiness of the queen and of

Italy depended on the education of her son, who was

destined, by his birth, to support the different and almost

incompatible characters of the chief of a barbarian camp,

and the first magistrate of a civilized nation. From

the age of ten years," Athalaric was diligently instructed

in the arts and sciences, either useful or ornamental for

a Roman prince; and three venerable Goths were cho­

sen to instil the principles of honour and virtue into the

mind of their young king. But the pupil, who is insen­

sible of the benefits, must , abhor the restraints of edu­

cation; and the solicitude of the queen, which affection

rendered anxious and severe, offended the uhtractable

nature of her son and his subjects. On a solemn fes­

tival, when the Goths were assembled in the palace of

Ravenna, the royal youth escaped from his mother's

apartment, and, with tears of pride and anger, com­

plained of a blow which his stubborn disobedience had

provoked her to inflict. The barbarians resented the

indignity which had been offered to their king; ac­

cused the regent of conspiring against his life and

h At the death of Theodoric, his grandson Athalaric is described by Procopins
as a

boy about eight years old—oxtm yeymx; etd. Cassiodorius, with authority and
reason,

adds two years to his age—infantulura adhuc vix decennem. , ,

VOL. V. M

