DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

voices of the barbarians attempted to imitate the melody

of the Roman school.b Experience had shewn him the

efficacy of these solemn and pompous rites, to soothe the

distress, to confirm the faith, to mitigate the fierceness,

and to dispel the dark enthusiasm of the vulgar; and he

readily forgave their tendency to promote the reign of

priesthood and superstition. The bishops of Italy and

the adjacent islands acknowledged the Roman pontiff as

their special metropolitan. Even the existence, the union,

or the translation of episcopal seats, was decided by his

absolute discretion: and his successful inroads into the

provinces of Greece, of Spain, and of Gaul, might coun­

tenance the more lofty pretensions of succeeding popes.

He interposed to prevent the abuses of popular elec­

tions; his jealous care maintained the purity of faith and

discipline, and the apostolic shepherd assiduously watch­

ed over the faith and discipline of the subordinate pas­

tors. Under his reign, the Arians of Italy and Spain

were reconciled to the Catholic church, and the conquest

of Britain reflects less glory on the name of Caesar, than

on that of Gregory I. Instead of six legions, forty

monks were embarked for that distant island, and the

pontiff lamented the austere duties which forbade him to

partake-the perils of their spiritual warfare. In less than

two years he could announce to the archbishop of Alex­

andria, that they had baptized the king of Kent with

ten thousand of his Anglo-Saxons; and that the Roman

missionaries, like those of the primitive church, were

armed only with spiritual and supernatural powers. The

credulity or the prudence of Gregory was always disposed

to confirm the truths of religion by the evidence of

ghosts, miracles, and resurrections ;c and posterity has

11 John the deacon (in Vit. Greg. lib. 2. c. 7.) expresses the early contempt
of the

Italians for tramontane singing. Alpina scilicet corpora vocum suarum
tonitruis al-

tisone perstrepentia, sosr.eptze modulations dulcedinem proprie non resultant:
qnift

hihali gatturis harhara feritas dum inflexionibus et repercussionibus mitem
nititor

edere cantilenam, naturati quodam fragore quasi planstra per gradus confuse
sonantia

rigidas voces jaotat, &c. In the time of Charlemagne, the Franks, though with
some

reluctance, admitted the justice of the reproach. Muratori, Dissert. 25.

c A French critic (Petras Gassanvillius, Opera, tom. 2. p. 105—112.) has
vindi­

