DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL1.

son of Clovis dissembled his intentions, which he at

length declared, by assaulting, almost at the same instant,

the hostile camps of the Romans and Goths. Instead of

uniting their arms, they fled with equal precipitation;

and the fertile, though desolate, provinces of Liguria and

./Emilia, were abandoned to a licentious host of barba­

rians, whose rage was not mitigated by any thoughts

of settlement or conquest. Among the cities which

they ruined, Genoa, not yet constructed of marble, is

particularly enumerated: and the deaths of thousands,

according to the regular practice of war, appear to have

excited less horror than some idolatrous sacrifices of

women and children, which were performed with impu­

nity in the camp of the most Christian king. If it were

not a melancholy truth, that the first and most cruel suf­

ferings must be the lot of the innocent and helpless, his­

tory might exult in the misery of the conquerors, who,

in the midst of riches, were left destitute of bread or

wine, reduced to drink the waters of the Po, and to feed

on the flesh of distempered cattle. The dysentery swept

away one-third of their army; and the clamours of his

subjects, who were impatient to pass the Alps, disposed

Theodebert to listen with respect to the mild exhorta­

tions of Belisarius. The memory of this inglorious and

destructive warfare was perpetuated on the medals of

Gaul: and Justinian, without unsheathing his sword,

assumed the title of conqueror of the Franks. The

Merovingian prince was offended by the vanity of the

emperor; he affected to pity the fallen fortunes of the

Goths; and his insidious offer of a federal union was

fortified by the promise or menace of descending from

the Alps at the head of five hundred thousand men. His

plans of conquest were boundless, and perhaps chimerical.

The king of Austrasia threatened to chastise Justinian,

and to march to the gates of Constantinople :k he was

k Agathias, lib. 1. p. 14, 15. Could he have seduced or subdued the Gepidc or

Lombards of Pannonia, the Greek historian is confident that lie mast have been
de­

stroyed in Thrace.

