158 .~ DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

which was kindled during his absence in his own camp."

Disorder and disobedience were the common malady of

the times: the genius to command, and the virtue to

obey, resided only in the mind of Belisarius.

Reign and Although Theodatus descended from a race of heroes,

WAR k DOSS

of Theoda- he was ignorant of the art, and averse to the dangers, of

kicking°fwar. Although he had studied the writings of Plato

aUd' 534 anc* Tally, philosophy was incapable of purifying his

October, mind from the basest passions, avarice and fear. He

A. D. 536

August. 'had purchased a sceptre by ingratitude and murder: at

the first menace of an enemy, he degraded his own ma­

jesty, and that of a nation, which already disdained their

unworthy sovereign. Astonished by the recent exam­

ple of Gelimer, he saw himself dragged in chains through

the streets of Constantinople; the terrors which Belisa­

rius inspired, were heightened by the eloquence of Peter,

the Byzantine ambassador ; and that bold and subtle ad­

vocate persuaded him to sign a treaty, too ignominious to

become the foundation of a lasting peace. It was stipu­

lated, that, in the acclamations of the Roman people,

the name of the emperor should be always proclaimed

before that of the Gothic king; and that as often as the

statue of Theodatus was erected in brass or marble, the

divine image of Justinian should be placed on its right

hand. Instead of conferring, the king of Italy was re­

duced to solicit, the honours of the senate; and the con­

sent of the emperor was made indispensable before he

could execute, against a priest or senator, the sentence

either of death or confiscation. The feeble monarch re­

signed the possession of Sicily; offered, as the annual

mark of his dependance, a crown of gold, of the weight

of three hundred pounds; and promised to supply, at

the requisition of his sovereign, three thousand Gothic

auxiliaries for the service of the empire. Satisfied with

* Procopius (Vandal. lib. 2. c. 14, 15.) so clearly relates tbe retai n of Belisarius  
into Sicily, (p. 146. edit. Hoescbelii) that I am astonisbed at the strange
misappre­

hension and reproaches of a learned critic. (CEuvres de la Mothe le Vayer,
torn. 8. p.

162, 163.)

