184 DECLINE AND FALL • fcHAP; XLI.

the remaining troops of Belisarius were divided and dis­

persed from the garrisons of Sicily to the shores of the

•nduX. Hadriatic. His skill and perseverance overcame every

rity of Be- obstacle: Urbino was taken, the sieges of Faesulae, Or-

vieto, and Auximum, were undertaken and vigorously

prosecuted; and the eunuch Narses was at length re­

called to the domestic cares of the palace. All dissensions

were healed, and all opposition was subdued, by the

temperate authority of the Roman general, to whom his

enemies could not refuse their esteem; and Belisarius

inculcated the salutary lesson, that the forces of the state

should compose one body, and be animated by one soul.

But, in the interval of discord, the Goths were permitted

to breathe; an important season was lost, Milan was

destroyed, and the northern provinces of Italy were

afflicted by an inundation of the Franks.

iuJySb7°r When Justinian first meditated the conquest of Italy,

tie Franks, he' sent ambassadors to the kings of the Franks, and ad-

A. D 538

539. 'jured them, by the common ties of alliance and religion,

to join in the holy enterprise against the Arians. The

Goths, as their wants were more urgent, employed a more

effectual mode of persuasion, and vainly strove, by the

gift of lands and money, to purchase the friendship, or at

least the neutrality, of a light and perfidious nation." But

the arms of Belisarius, and the revolt of the Italians, had

no sooner shaken the Gothic monarchy,than Theodebert

of Austrasia, the most powerful and warlike of the Me­

rovingian king^, was persuaded to succour their distress

by an indirect and seasonable aid. Without expecting

the consent of their sovereign, ten thousand Burgun-

dians, his recent subjects, descended from the Alps, and

joined the troops which Vitiges had sent to chastise the

revolt of Milan. After an obstinate siege, the capital of

Liguria was reduced by famine, but no capitulation could

be obtained, except for the safe retreat of the Roman

e This national reproach of perfidy (Procop. Goth. lib. 2. o. 25.) offends the
ear of

la Mothe le Vaycr, (tom. 8. p. 163—165.) who criticise;, as if he had not
read, the

Greek historian. .

