DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

df the sacred and profane buildings of the Asiatic suburbs,

while, he impatiently waited the arrival of his Scythian

friends on the opposite side of the Bosphorus. On the

29th of June, thirty thousand barbarians, the vanguard

of the Avars, forced the long wall, and drove into the

capital a promiscuous crowd of peasants, citizens, and

soldiers. Fourscore thousand0 of his native subjects,

and of the vassal tribes of Gepidas. Russians, Bulgarians,

and Sclavonians, advanced under the standard of the

chagan: a month was spent in marches and negotia­

tions, but the whole city was invested on the 31st of

July, from the suburbs of Pera and Galata to the Bla-

chernae and seven towers; and the inhabitants descried

with terror the flaming signals of the European and

Asiatic shores. In the meanwhile the magistrates of Con­

stantinople repeatedly strove to purchase the retreat of

the chagan: but their deputies were rejected and insult­

ed; and he suffered the patricians to stand before his

throne, while the Persian envoys, in silk robes, were seat­

ed by his side.—" You see (said the haughty barbarian)

the proofs of my perfect union with the great king: and

his lieutenant is ready to send into my camp a select band

of three thousand warriors. Presume no longer to tempt

your master with a partial and inadequate ransom: your

wealth and your city are the only presents worthy of my

acceptance. For yourselves, I shall permit you to depart,

each with ap under-garment and a shirt; and, at myen-

treatyj my friend Sarbar will not refuse a passage through

his lines. Your absent prince, even now a captive or a

fugitive, has left Constantinople to its fate; nor can you

escape the arms of the Avars and Persians, unless you

could soar into the air like birds, unless like fishes you

could dive into the waves."d During ten successive days,

* This number of' eight myriads is specified by George of Pisidia. (Bell. A bar.  
219.) The poet (50—88) clearly indicates that the old chagan lived till the
reign of

Heraclius, and that his son and successor was born" of a foreign mother. Yet
Foggini

(Annotat. p. 67i) has given another interpretation to this passage.

* A bird, a frog, a mouse, and five arrows, had been the present of the Scythian  
king to Darius. (Herodot. lib. 4. c. 131, 132.) Substituez une lettre a ces
signes

(says Rousseau, with much good taste) plus ella sera nienecante inoins elle
efl'rayera:

c« tie fera queune fanfarrerwde, dont Darius n'eut fait quorire, (lituile,
torn. 3. p. 146.)

