DECLINE ANI> FALL [CHAP. XLI.

contempt might perhaps be due to the naked youths who

appeared on foot in the fields of Troy, and, lurking be­

hind a tombstone, or the shield of a friend, drew the

bowstring to their breast,' and dismissed a feeble and

lifeless arrow. But our archers (pursues the historian)

are mounted on horses, which they manage with admi­

rable skill; their head and shoulders are protected by a

Casque or buckler; they wear greaves of iron on their

legs, and their bodies are guarded by a coat of mail. On

jtheir right side hangs a quiver, a sword on the left, and

their hand is accustomed to wield a lance, or javelin, in

closer combat. Their bows are strong and weighty; they

shoot in every possible direction, advancing, retreating,

* to the front, to the rear, or to either flank; and as they  
are taught to draw the bowstring not to the breast, but

to the right ear} firm indeed must be the armour that

can resist the rapid violence of their shaft." Five hun­

dred transports, navigated by twenty thousand mariners

of Egypt? Cilicia, and Ionia, were collected in the har­

bour of Constantinople. The smallest of these vessels

may be computed at thirty, the largest at five hundred

(tons; and the fair average will supply an allowance, li­

beral, but not profuse, of about one hundred thousand

tons,* for the reception of thirty-five thousand soldiers

and sailors, of five thousand horses, of arms, engines, and

military stores, and of a sufficient stock of water and pro­

of Diomede, (Iliad, A. 335, &c.) and the permittere vulnera ventis of Lacan:
(8.

3f!4.) yet fhe Romans conld not despise the arrows of the Farthians: and in
the siege

of Troy, Pandarus, Paris, and Teucer, pierced those haughty warriors who
insulted

them as women or children.

1 Nsupijv mev f/.afa TueXswev, to£v Se <Ti5iigCT. (Iliad, A, 123.) How
concise—how

just—how beautiful is the whole picture! I see the attitudes of the archer—I
hear

the twanging of the bow,— -

Aiyfe &t°;, vsugfl Se fj.ty ia.~xp, aXro S' siVto;.

k The. t?xt appears to allow for the largest vessels fifty thousand medimni,
or

three*thousand tons (since the medimnus weighed one hundred and sixty Roman,
or

one hundred and twenty avoirdupois, pounds). I have given a more rational
interpre­

tation, by supposing that the Attic style of Procopius conceals the legal and
popu­

lar modius, a sixth part of the medimnus. (Hooper's Ancient Measures, p. 152,
&c.)

A contrary, and indeed a stranger, mistake, has crept into an oration of
Dmarchus

(contra fiemosthenem, in Reiske Orator. Griec. tom. 4. p. 2. p. 34.) By
reduoing

the number of ships from five hundred to fifty, and translating wSifMai by
mines or

pounds. Cousin has generously allowed five hundred tons for the whole of the
impe­

rial fleet!—Did he never think?

