CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

lewdness and perfidy." By these implacable enemies,

Heraclius, on either side, was insulted and besieged: and

the Roman empire was reduced to the walls of Constan­

tinople, with the remnant of Greece, Italy, and Africa,

and some maritime cities, from Tyre to Trebizond, of

the Asiatic coast. After the loss of Egypt, the capital

was afflicted by famine and pestilence; and the emperor,

incapable of resistance, and hopeless of relief, had resolved

to transfer his person and government to the more secure

residence of Carthage. His ships were already laden with

the treasures of the palace, but his flight was arrested by

the patriarch, who armed the powers of religion in the

defence of his country, led Heraclius to the altar of St.

Sophia, and extorted a solemn oath, that he would live

and die with the people whom God had intrusted to his

care. The chagan was encamped in the plains of Thrace,

but he dissembled his perfidious designs, and solicited an

interview with the emperor near the town of Heraclea.

Their reconciliation was celebrated with equestrian

games; the senate and people in their gayest apparel re­

sorted to the festival of peace, and the Avars beheld, with

envy and desire, the spectacle of Roman luxury. On a

sudden the hippodrome was encompassed by the Scythian

cavalry, who had pressed their secret and nocturnal

march: the tremendous sound of the chagan's whip gave

the signal of the assault; and Heraclius, wrapping his

diadem round his arm, was saved, with extreme hazard,

by the fleetness of his horse. So rapid was the pursuit,

that the Avars almost entered the golden gate of Con­

stantinople with the flying crowds ;b but the plunder of

the suburbs rewarded their treason, and they transported

beyond the Danube, two hundred and seventy thousand

captives. On the shore of Chalcedon, the emperor held

» Panl Warnefrid, de Gestis Langobardorum, lib. 4. c. 38. 42. Muratori, Annali

d'ltalia, torn. 5. p.'S05, &c.

b The Paschal Chronicle, which sometimes Introduces fragments of history into
»

barren list of names and dates, gives the best account of the treason of the
Avars,

f. 389, 390. The number of captives is added by Nicenhorus.

