. RECLINE AND PALI/ [eHAP. XMV.

de* to the father, who strangles, or starves* or abandons

his new-born infant;. or exposes him in a public place to

find the mercy which he himself had denied. But thQ

exposition of children was the prevailing and stubborn

vice of antiquity; it was sometimes prescribed, often

permitted, almost always practised with impunity, by

the nations who never entertained the Roman ideas of

paternal power; and the dramatic poets, who appeal to

the human heart, represent with indifference a popular

custom which was palliated by the motives of economy

and compassion." If the father could subdue his own,

feelings, he might escape,, though not the censure, a%

feast the chastisement, of the laws : and the Roman emT

pire was stained with the blood of infants, till such mur­

ders were included, by Valentinian and his colleagues, in

the letter and spirit of the Cornelian law. The lessons

of jurisprudence1 and Christianity had been insufficient

to eradicate this inhuman practice, till their gentle in- -

fiuence was fortified by the terrors of capital punish­

ment/ , . •

Experience has proved, that savages are the tyrants of

the female sex, and that the condition of women is usually

softened by the refinements of social life. In the hope

of a robust progeny, Lycurgus had delayed the season of

marriage; it was fixed by Numa at the tender age of

twelve years, that the Roman husband might educate to

his will a pure and obedient virgin.2 According to the

u When the Chremes of Terence' reproaches his wife for not obeying his orders

and exposing their infant, he speaks like a father and a master, and silences
the scru­

ples of a foolish woman. See Apaloius. (Metamorph. lib. 10. p. 337. edit.
Delphin.)

* The opinion of tho lawyers, and the discretion of the magistrates, had intro­  
duced in the time of Tacitus some legal restraints, which might support his
contrast

of the boni mores of the Germans to the benie leges alibi—that is to say, at
Rome,

(de Moribus Cernianorsm, o. 19). Tertullian (ad Nationes, lib. 1. c. 15.)
refutes

his own charges and those of his brethren, against the heathen
jurisprudence.''

y The wise and humane sentence of the civilian Paul, (lib. 2. Sententiarum in

Pandect, lib. 25. tit. 3. leg. 4.) is represented as a mere moral precept by
Gerard

Noodl, (Opp. torn. 1. in Julius Paullus, p. 567—588. and Arnica Responsio, p.

591—606.) who maintains the opinion of Justus Lipsius, (Opp. torn. 2. p. 409.
ad

Belgas, cent. 1. epist. 85.) and as a positive binding law by Bynkershoek, (de
Jure

sccidendi Liberos, Opp. torn. 1. p. 318—340. Curse Secundse, p. 391—427.) In

s> learned but angry controversy the two friends deviated into the opposite
extremes.

i * Dionys. Hal. lib. 2. p. 92,93. Plutarch, in. Kumat p. 140^ 141. Tetrx^e.
xat

