CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

huts within a wooden fence; the fortresses are seated in

the depths of forests; the princely town of Cyta, or Co

tatiSj consists of two hundred houses, and a stone-edifice

appertains only to the magnificence of kings. Twelve

ships from Constantinople, and about sixty barks, laden

with the fruits of industry, annually cast anchor on the

coast; and the list of Colchian exports is much increas­

ed, since the natives had only slaves and hides to offer in

exchange for the corn and salt which they purchased

from the subjects of Justinian. Not a vestige can be

found of the art, the knowledge, or the navigation, of the

ancient Colchians: few Greeks desired or dared to pur­

sue the footsteps of the Argonauts ; and even the marks

of an Egyptian colony are lost on a nearer approach.

The rite of circumcision is practised only by the Maho-^

metans of the Euxine; and the curled hair and swarthy

complexion of Africa no longer disfigure the most per­

fect of the human race. It is in the adjacent climates of

Georgia, Mingrelia, and Circassia, that nature has placed,

at least to our eyes, the model of beauty, in the shape

of the limbs, the colour of the skin, the symmetry of the

features, and the expression of the countenance.11 Ac­

cording to the destination of the two sexes, the men

seemed formed for action, the women for love; and the

perpetual supply of females from mount Caucasus has

purified the blood, and improved the breed, of the

southern nations of Asia. The proper district of Min­

grelia, a portion only of the ancient Colchos, has long

sustained an exportation of twelve thousand slaves. The

number of prisoners and criminals would be inadequate

to the annual demand; but the common people are in

a state of servitude to their lords, the exercise of fraud

or rapine is unpunished in a lawless community; and

the market is continually replenished by the abuse of

d Bufion (Hist. Nat. torn. 3. p. 433—437.) collects the unanimous suffrage of
natu­

ralists and travellers. If, in the time of Herodotus, they were iu truth
ftsKay^fOEs

and oiAotji^e; (and be had observed them with care), this precious fact is an
example

of the influence of climate on a foreign colony.

