DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

The Persians followed without a murmur the commands

of a single chief, who implicitly obeyed the instructions

of their supreme lord. Their general was distinguished

among the heroes of the east by his wisdom in council,

and his valour in the field. The advanced age of Mer-

meroes, and the lameness of both his feet, could not di­

minish the activity of his mind, or even of his body; and

whilst he was carried in a litter in the front of battle,

he inspired terror to the enemy, and a just confidence

to the troops, who, under his banners, were always suc­

cessful. After his death, the command devolved to Na-

coragan, a proud satrap, who, in conference with, the

imperial chiefs, had presumed to declare that he disposed

of victory as absolutely as of the ring on his finger.

Such presumption was the natural cause and forerunner

of a shameful defeat. The Romans had been gradually

repulsed to the edge of the sea-shore; and their last

camp, on the ruins of the Grecian colony of Phasis, wa3

defended on all sides by strong intrenchments, the river,

the Euxine, and a fleet of galleys. Despair united their

councils and invigorated their arms; they withstood the

assaults of the Persians; and the flight of Nacoragan

preceded or followed the slaughter of ten thousand of

his bravest soldiers. He escaped from the Romans to

fall into the hands of an unforgiving master, who severely

chastised the error of his own choice; the unfortunate

general was flayed alive, and his skin, stuffed into the

human form, was exposed on a mountain: a dreadful

warning to those who might hereafter be intrusted with

the fame and fortune of Persia/ Yet the prudence of

Chosroes insensibly relinquished the prosecution of the

Colchian war, in the just persuasion that it is impossible

to reduce, or at least to hold, a distant country against

the wishes and efforts of its inhabitants. The fidelity

* The punishment of flaying alive could not be introduced into Persia by Sapor,  
(Brison da Regn. Pers. lib. 2. p. 578.) nor could it be copied from the
foolish tale of

Marsyas the Phrygian piper, most foolishly quoted as a precedent by Agathias.
(lib.

4. p. 132, 133.)

