348 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL1V.

selected by the imperial delegates, Tribonian, Theophi-

lus, and Dorotheus: and the freedom and purity of the.

Antonines was incrusted with the coarser materials of a■

degenerate age. The same volume which introduced

the youth of Rome, Constantinople, and Berytus, to the

gradual study of the Code and Pandects, is still precious

to the historian, the philosopher, and the magistrate.

The institutes of Justinian are divided into four

books; they proceed, with no contemptible method,

from, l.Persons, to II. Things, and from things, to III.

fictions; and the article IV. of Private Wrongs, is ter­

minated by the principles of Criminal Law. . ..•

I. of I, The distinction of ranks and persons, is the firmest

Freemen' basis of a mixed and limited government. In France,

and dares. tne remains of liberty are kept alive by the spirit, the ho­

nours, and even the prejudices, of fifty thousand nobles.8

Two hundred families supply, in lineal descent, the se­

cond branch of the English legislature, which maintains,

between the king and commons, the balance of the con­

stitution, A gradation of patricians and plebeians, of

strangers and subjects, has supported the aristocracy of

t: Genoa, Venice, and ancient Rome. The perfect equality

.. .of men is the point in which the extremes of democracy

'■and despotism are confounded, since the majesty of the

prince or people would be offended, if any heads were exT

alted above the level of their fellow-slaves or fellow-citiT

zens. In the decline of the Roman empire, the prou4

distinctions of the republic were gradually abolished, and

the reason or instinct of Justinian completed the simple

form of an absolute monarchy. The emperor could not

eradicate the popular reverence which always waits on

the possession of hereditary Wealth, or the memory of

famous ancestors. He delighted to honour with titles

i '.' •' , .

f See the Annates Politiques de l'abbe de Si. Pierre, ton. 1. p. 25. who dates
in

the year 1735. The most ancient families claim the immemorial possession of
arms

and fiefs. Since the crusades, some, the most truly respectable, have been
created by

. the king, for merit and services. The recent and vulgar crowd is derived
from the

multitude of .venal offices without trust or dignity, which continually
ennoble the

wealthy plebeians.

■

