CHAP. XLV1.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 483

have been to advance into the provinces of Asia, leaving

their innumerable cavalry to intercept his convoys, and

continually to hang on the lassitude and disorder of his

rear. But the Greeks were still masters of the sea; a

fleet of galleys, transports, and store-ships, was assem­

bled in the harbour; the barbarians consented toembark;

a steady wind carried them through the Hellespont; the

western and southern coast of Asia Minor lay on their

left hand; the spirit of their chief was first displayed in

a storm; and even the eunuchs of his train were excited

to suffer and to work by the example of their master.

He landed his troops on the confines of Syria and Cili-

cia, in the gulf of Scanderoon, where the coast sudden­

ly turns to the south ;k and his discernment was express­

ed in the choice of this important post.1 From all sides,

the scattered garrisons of the maritime cities and the

mountains might repair with speed and safety to his im­

perial standard. The natural fortifications of Cilicia pro­

tected, and even concealed the camp of Heraclius, which

was pitched near Issus, on the same ground where Alex­

ander had vanquished the host of Darius. The angle

which the emperor occupied, was deeply indented into a

vast semicircle of the Asiatic, Armenian, and Syrian pro­

vinces; and to whatsoever point of the circumference

he should direct his attack, it was easy for him to dis­

semble his own motions, and to prevent those of the

enemy. In the camp of Issus, the Roman general re­

formed the sloth and disorder of the veterans, and edu-

* George of Pisidia (Acroas. 2. 10. p. 8.) has fixed this important point of the Sy­  
rian and Cilioian gates. They are elegantly described by Xenophon, who marched

through them a thousand years before. A narrow pass of three stadia between
steep

high rocks (w«rgai nM$etrat) and the Mediterranean was closed at each end by
strong

gates, impregnable to the land, (uiapixSfjv qvKw Biet), accessible by sea'
(Anahasis,

jib 1.. p. 35, 36. with Hutchinson's Geographical Dissertation, p. 6.) The
gates

were thirty-fire parasangs, or leagues from Tarsus, (Anahasis, lib. 1. p. 33,
34.) and

eight or ten from Antioch. (Compare Itinerar. Wesseling. p. 580—581.
Scbitltens,

Judex Geograph. ad calcem Vit. Saladin. p. 9. Voyage cu Turquie et en Perse,
par

M. Otter, tom. 1. p. 78, 79.)

1 Heraclius might write to a friend in the modest words of Cicero.—" Castra
ha-

buimus ea ipsa quae contra Darium habuerat apud Issum Alexander, imperator
band

paulo melior quam ant tu aut ego." Ad Atticum, 5. 20. Isaus, a rich and
flourish­

ing city in the time of Xenophon, was ruined by tbs prosperity of Alexandria,
of

(Scandaroon, on the oiher aids of the hay.

