CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 331

Second

period,

A. V. C.

648—988.

of their clients, who, at the dawn of day, from the town'

and country, began to thunder at their door. The du­

ties of social life, and the incidents of judicial proceed­

ing, were the ordinary subject of these consultations, ahd'

the verbal or written opinion of the jurisconsults was

framed according to the rules of prudence and law.

The youths of their own order and family were permitted

to listen; their children enjoyed the benefit of more pri

vate lessons, and the Mucian race was long renowned

for the hereditary knowledge of the civil law. The se

cond period, the learned and splendid age of jurispru­

dence, may be extended from the birth of Cicero to the

reign of Severus Alexander. A system was •formed,

schools were instituted, books were composed, and both'

the living and the dead became subservient to the in

struction of the student. The tripartite of jEHus Pae

tus, surnamed Catus, or the Cunning, was preserved as

the oldest work of jurisprudence. Cato the censor de­

rived some additional fame from his legal studies, and

those of his son: the kindred appellation of Mucius

Scaevola was illustrated by three sages of the law; but

the perfection of the science was ascribed to Servius

Sulpicius their disciple, and the friend of Tully; and the

long succession, which shone with equal lustre under

the republic and under the Caesars, is finally closed by

the respectable characters of Papinian, of Paul, and of

Ulpian. Their names, and the various titles of their

productions, have been minutely preserved, and the ex­

ample of Labeo may suggest some idea of their diligence

and fecundity. That eminent lawyer of the Augustan

age divided the year between the city and country, be­

tween business and composition; and four hundred

books are enumerated as the fruit of his retirement. Of

the collections of his rival Capito, the two hundred and

fifty-ninth book is expressly quoted; and few teachers

could deliver their opinions in less than a century of vo­

lumes. In the third period, between the reigns of Alex­

z 2

