254 DECLINE A NO FALL [CHAV. XLII.

thousand yeara the sequestered region of myrrh and

frankincense. The conqueror immediately announced

the victory of the gospel, requested an orthodox patri­

arch, and so warmly professed his friendship to the Ro«

man empire, that Justinian was flattered by the hope of

diverting the silk-trade through the channel of Abyssi­

nia, and of exciting the forces of Arabia against the Per-

Their aft- sian king. Nonnosus, descended from a family of am-

Justinian, bassadors, was named by the emperor to execute this im-

a. d. 5S3. pliant commission. He wisely declined the shorter,

but more dangerous, road through the sandy deserts of

Nubia; ascended the Nile, embarked on the Red sea,

and safely landed at the African port of Adulis. From

Adulis to the royal city of Axume is no more than fifty

leagues, in a direct line; but the winding passes of the

mountains detained the ambassador fifteen days; and as

he traversed the forests, he saw, and vaguely computed,

about five thousand wild elephants. The capital, accord­

ing to his report, was large and populous ; and the village

of Axume is still conspicuous by the regal coronations,

by the ruins of a Christian temple, and by sixteen or

seventeen obelisks inscribed with Grecian characters.*

But the Negus gave audience in the open field, seated on

a lofty chariot, which was drawn by four elephants su­

perbly caparisoned, and surrounded by his nobles and

musicians. He was clad in a linen-garment and cap,

holding in his hand two javelins and a light shield; and;

although his nakedness was imperfectly covered, he dis­

played the barbaric pomp of gold chains, collars, aad

bracelets, richly adorned with pearls and precious stones.

The ambassador of Justinian knelt; the Negus raised

him from the ground, embraced Nonnosus, kissed the

seal, perused the letter,accepted the Roman alliance, and,

S Alvarez (in Ramnsio, tom. 1. fol. £19 vers. 221 vera.) saw the Oourishing
state

of Axume in the year 1520—iuogo molto buouo e graode. It was mined in tho same

century by the Turkish invasion. No more than one hundred houses remain; but

the memory of its past greatuess is preserved by the regal coronation.
(Ludolph. UisU

et Comment, lib. 2. c, 11.)

