CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE R0MAM EMPIRE. 201

Romans. Their industry had scooped the Sibyl's cave*

into a prodigious mine; combustible materials were in­

troduced to consume the temporary props: the wall and

the gate of Cumae sunk into the cavern, but the ruins

formed a deep and inaccessible precipice. On the frag­

ment of a rock Aligern stood alone and unshaken, till he

calmly surveyed the hopeless condition of his country,

and judged it more honourable to be the friend of Nar-

ses than the slave of the Franks. After the death of

Teias, the Roman general separated his troops to reduce

the cities of Italy; Lucca sustained a long and vigorous

siege: and such was the humanity or the prudence of

Narses, that the repeated perfidy of the inhabitants could

not provoke him to exact the forfeit lives of their host­

ages. These hostages were dismissed in safety; and

their grateful zeal at length subdued the obstinacy of

their countrymen

Before Lucca had surrendered, Italy was overwhelmed Invasion

by a new deluge of barbarians. A feeble youth, the uJpnnk*

grandson of Clovis, reigned over the Austrasians or aild ^le"

oriental Franks. The guardians of Theodebald enter- A-D- sss,

tained with coldness and reluctance the magnificent pro-

mises of the Gothic ambassadors. But the spirit of a

martial people outstripped the timid counsels of the

court: two brothers, Lothaire and Buccelin,b the dukes

of the Alemanni, stood forth as the leaders of the Ita­

lian war; and seventy-five thousand Germans descended

in the autumn from the Rhastian Alps into the plain of

Milan. The vanguard of the Roman army was sta-

1 Agathias (lib. 1. o. 21.) settles the Sibyll's cave under Hie walls of
Cumos; he

agrees with Servins; (ad lib. 6. jEneid.) nor can I perceive wby their opinion
should

be rejected by Heyne, the excellent editor of Virgil, (tom. 2. p. 650, 651.)
In orbe

media secreta religio! ButCmme was not yet built; and the lines (lib. 6.96,
97.)

would become ridiculous, if iEneas were actually in a Greek city.

»JThere is some difficulty in connecting the thirty-fifth chapter of the
fourth book

of the Gothic war of Procopius with the first book of the history of Agnthias.
We

must now relinquish a statesman and soldier, to attend the footsteps of a poet
and

rhetoriciau. (lib. 1. p. 11. lib. 2. p. 51. edit. Louvre.)'''

b Among the fabulous exploits of Buccelin, he discomfited and slew Belisarius,

subdued Italy aud Sicily, &e. See, in the Historians of France, Gregory of
Tours

(tom. 2. lib. 3. c. 32. p. 203.), and Almoin. (tom. 3. lib. 2. o> Gestis
Francorum,

c 23. p. 59) '■ >

