■41$ DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

ter took refuge in the dominions of their ally; and the

marriage was consummated in the palace of Verona. At

the end of one year, it was dissolved by the death of Au-

tharis: but the virtues of Theudelinda" had endeared her

to the nation, and she was permitted to bestow, with her

hand, the sceptre of the Italian kingdom,

covern- From this fact, as well as from similar events,' it is eer-

tain that the Lombards possessed freedom to elect their

sovereign, and sense to decline the frequent use of that

dangerous privilege. The public revenue arose from

the produce of land, and the profits of justice. When

the independent dukes agreed that Autharis should as­

cend the throne of his father, they endowed the regal

office with a fair moiety of their respective domains. The

proudest nobles aspired to the honours of servitude near

the person of their prince: he rewarded the fidelity of his

Vassals by the precarious gift of pensions and benefices; and

atoned for the injuries of war, by the rich foundation of

monasteries and churches. In peace a j udge, a leader in

War, he never usurped the powers of a sole and absolute

legislator. The king of Italy convened the national as­

semblies in the palace, or more probably in the fields of

Pavia: his great council was composed of the persons

most eminent by their birth and dignities: but the valid­

ity, as well as the execution, of their decrees, depended

on the approbation of the faithful people, the fortunate

army of the Lombards. About fourscore years after the

conquest of Italy, their traditional customs were trans­

cribed in Teutonic Latin/ and ratified by the consent

taws, of the prince and people: some new regulations were

a.j). 643, introduce^ m0re suitable to their present condition; the

example of Rotharis was imitated by the wisest of his

• Giannone (Istoria Civile de Napoli, tom. 1. p. 263.) baa justly censured the
im­

pertinence of Boccaccio, (Gio. 3. Novel. 2.) who, without right, or truth, or
pretence,

has given the pious queen Theudelinda to the■ arius of a muleteer.

'Paul, lib. 3. c 16. The first dissertations of Muratorj, and the first volume
of

Gianhone's history, may be consulted for the state of the kingdom of Italy.

* The most accurate edition of the laws of the Lomhards is to be found in the  
Scriptores Rerum Italicarum, toni. 1. part. 2. p. 1—181. collated from the
most an­

cient MSS. and illustrated by the critical notes of Mnratori.

