4.12 DECLINE AND FALL [cHAF. XLV.

diadem: be thou wise and modest; remember what you

have been, remember what you are. You see around us

your slaves and your children; with the authority, as­

sume the tenderness, of a parent. Love your people

like yourself; cultivate the affections, maintain the dis­

cipline, of the army: protect the fortunes of the rich,

relieve the necessities of the poor."J The assembly, in

silence, and in tears, applauded the counsels, and sympa­

thized with the repentance, of their prince: the patri­

arch rehearsed the prayers of the church; Tiberius re­

ceived the diadem on his knees, and Justin, who in his

abdication appeared most worthy to reign, addressed the

new monarch in the following words.—" If you consent,

I live; if you command, I die: may the God of heaven

and earth infuse into your heart whatever I have neglect-

Death of ed or forgotten." The four last years of the emperor

a" d. 578, Justin were passed in tranquil obscurity: his conscience

October a. weg nQ jonger tormented by the remembrance of those

duties which he was incapable of discharging: and his

choice was justified by the filial reverence and gratitude

of Tiberius.

Tiber";™ Among the virtues of Tiberius/ his beauty (he was

n. one of the tallest and most comely of the Romans) might

Sept. 26— introduce him to the favour of Sophia; and the widow of

Abe. 14?*' Justin was persuaded that she should preserve her station

and influence under the reign of a second and more

youthful husband. But if the ambitious candidate had

been tempted to flatter and dissemble, it was no longer

in his power to fulfil her expectations, or his own pro­

mise. The factions of the hippodrome demanded, with

some impatience, the name of their new empress; both

the people and Sophia were astonished by the proclama-

d Tbeophylact Simocatta (lib. 3. c. 11.) declares, that he shall give to
posterity the

speech of Justin as it was pronounced, without attempting to correct the
imperfections

of language or rhetoric. Perhaps the vain sophist would have been incapable of
pro­

ducing such sentiments.

• For the character and reign of Tiberius, see Evagrius, lib. 5. c. 13 ;
Theophylact,

lib. 3. c. 12, &c. Theophanes, in Chron. p. 210—213 ;Zonoras, torn. 2. lib.
14. p. 72;

Cedrenus, p. 392 ; Paul Warnefrid, de Geslis Langobard. lib. 3. c. 11,12. The
dea­

con of Forum Julii appears to have possessed some curious and authentic facts.

