CHAP. XLI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 133

hold; and, in the moments of festivity, when the im­

partial spectators applauded the fortune and merit of

Belisarius, his envious flatterers secretly shed their venom

on every word and gesture which might alarm the sus­

picions of a jealous monarch. One day was given to

these pompous scenes, which may not be despised as use­

less if they attracted the popular veneration; but the

active mind of Belisarius, which in the pride of victory

could suppose a defeat, had already resolved, that the

■Roman empire in Africa should not depend on the

chance of arms, or the favour of the people. The for­

tifications of Carthage had alone been exempted from

the general proscription; but in the reign of ninety-five

years they were suffered to decay by the thoughtless and

indolent Vandals. A wiser conqueror restored with in­

credible dispatch the walls and ditches of the city. His

liberality encouraged the workmen; the soldiers, the

"mariners, and the citizens, vied with each other in the

salutary labour; and Gelimer, who had feared to trust

his person in an open town, beheld with astonishment

and despair the rising strength of an impregnable fortress.

That unfortunate monarch, after the loss of his capi- Final de-

tal, applied himself to collect the remains of an army Geni°f

Jimer

scattered, rather than destroyed, by the preceding bat- ™* ^f,

tie; and the hopes of pillage attracted some Moorish a. d. 533,

bands to the standard of Gelimer. He encamped in the

fields of Bulla, four days' journey from Carthage; in­

sulted the capital, which he deprived of the use of an

aqueduct; proposed a high reward for the head of

every Roman; affected to spare the persons and pro­

perty of his African subjects, and secretly negociated

with the Arian sectaries and the confederate Huns. Un­

der these circumstances, the conquest of Sardinia served

only to aggravate his distress; he reflected with the

deepest anguish, that he had wasted, in that useless en­

terprise, five thousand of his bravest troops; and he

read, with grief and shame, the victorious letters of his

