78 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

imperial treasurer, a whole people, the manufacturers of

Tyre arid Berytus, was reduced to extreme misery, and

either perished with hunger, or fled to the hostile domi­

nions of Persia." A province might suffer by the decay

of its manufactures; but in this example of silk, Proco-

pius has partially overlooked the inestimable and lasting

benefit which the empire received from the curiosity of

Justinian. His addition of one-seventh to the ordinary

price of copper-money may be interpreted with the same

candour; and the alteration, which might be wise, ap­

pears to have been innocent; since he neither allayed the

purity, nor enhanced the value, of the gold coin,5 the legal

Venality, measure of public and private payments. V. The ample

jurisdiction, required by the farmers of the revenue to

accomplish their engagements, might be placed in an

odious light, as if they had purchased from the emperor

the lives and fortunes of their fellow-citizens. And a

more direct sale of honours and offices was transacted in

the palace, with the permission, or at least with the con­

nivance, of Justiniah and Theodora. The claims of

merit, even those of favour, were disregarded, and it was

almost reasonable to expect, that the bold adventurer,

who had undertaken the trade of a magistrate, should

find a rich compensation for infamy, labour, danger, the

debts which he had contracted, and the heavy interest

which he paid. A sense of the disgrace and mischief of

this venal practice, at length awakened the slumbering

virtue of Justinian; and he attempted, by the sanction

of oaths' and penalties, to guard the integrity of his go­

vernment: but, at the end of a year of perjury, his rigo­

rous edict was suspended, and corruption licentiously

'For an aureus, one-sixth of an ounce of gold, instead of two hundred and ten,
he

gave no more than one hundred and eighty folios, or ounces of copper. A
dispropor­

tion of the mint, below the market price,must have soon produced a scarcity of
small

money. In England, twelve pence in copper would sell for no more than seven
pence.

(Smith's Inquiry into the Wealth of Nations, vol. 1. p. 49.) For Justinian's
gold

coin, seo Evngrius. (lib. 4. c. 30.)

i The oath is conceived in the most formidable words. (Novell. 8. tit. 3.) The

defaulters imprecate on themselves, quicquid habent teloram armamentaria
cceli; the

part of Judas, Hie heprosy of Gehazi the tremor of Cain, &c. besides all
temporal

trains.

