DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP; XLJ

potamia were diligently strengthened, and the posts which

appeared to have any command of ground or water,

were occupied by numerous forts, substantially built of

stone, or more hastily erected with the obvious materials

of earth and brick. The eye of Justinian investigated

every spot; and his cruel precautions might attract the

war into some lonely vale, whose peaceful natives, con­

nected by trade and marriage, were ignorant of national

discord and the quarrels of princes. Westward of the

Euphrates, a sandy desert extends above six hundred

miles to the Red sea. Nature had interposed a vacant

solitude between the ambition of two rival empires: the

Arabians, till Mahomet arose, were formidable only as

robbers: and, in the proud security of peace, the fortifica­

tions of Syria were neglected on the most vulnerable side.

But the notional enmity, at least the effects of that

enmity, had been suspended by a truce, which continued

above fourscore years. An ambassador from the empe^

ror Zeno accompanied the rash and unfortunate Perozes,

in his expedition against the Nepthalites or White Huns,

whose conquest had been stretched from the Caspian to

the heart of India, whose throne was enriched with eme-r

raids,5 and whose cavalry was supported by a line of two

thousand elephants.' The Persians were twice circum-f

vented, in a situation which made valour useless and

flight impossible; and the double victory of the Huns

was achieved by military stratagem, They dismissed

superstitions, of Herodotus. The promise was not in th,e primitive lie of
Eusehius,

but dates at least from the year 400; and a third lie, the Veronica, was soon
raised

on the two former. (Evagrius, lib. 4. c. 27.) As Edessa has been taken,
Tillemont

must disclaim the promise. (Mem. Ecules. tom. 1. p. 362.383. 617.)

• They were purchased from the merohants of Adulis who traded to India; (Cos-

mas, Topograph. Christ. lib. 11. p. 339.) yet, in the estimate of precioas
stones, the

Scythian emerald was the first, the Bactrian the second, the jEthiopian only
the

third. (Hill's Theophrastus. p. 61. &c. 92.) The production, mines, &c. of
eme­

ralds, are involved in darkness; and it is doubtful whether we possess any of
the

twelve sorts known to the ancients. (Goguet. Origine des'Loix, &c. part 2.
lib. 2. o. 2.

art. 3.) In this war Ihe Huns got, or at least Perozes lost, the fmest pearl
in the'

world, of which Procopius relates a ridiculous fable. ■•

1 The Indo-Scythai continued to reign from the time of Augustus (Dionys.
Perie-

get. 1088. with the Commentary of Eustathius, jo Hudson, Geograph. Minor,
tom.4.)

to that of the eldest Justin. (Cosmas, Topograph. Christ. lib. 11. p. 338,
339.) On

their origin and conquests, see d'Anville (sur l'lude, p. 18. 45. &c. 69. 83.
8,9.) I».

the second century they were musters of Larice or Guezernl,

