441 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

Tyranny The throne of Chosroes Nushirvan was filled by Hor-

of hil son mouz, or Hormisdas, the eldest or the most favoured of

a.°™579 nis sons- With the kingdoms of Persia and India, he

—590. inherited the reputation and example of his father, the

service, in every rank, of his wise and valiant officers, and

a general system of administration, harmonized by time

and political wisdom, to promote the happiness of the

prince and people. But the royal youth enjoyed a still

more valuable blessing, the friendship of a sage who had

presided over his education, and who always preferred

the honour to the interest of his pupil, his interest to his

inclination. In a dispute with the Greek and Indian phi­

losophers, Buzurgh had once maintained, that the most

grievous misfortune of life is old age without the remem­

brance of virtue; and our candour will presume that the

same principle compelled him, during three years, to di­

rect the councils of the Persian empire. His zeal was re-

Warded by the gratitude and docility of Hormouz, who

acknowledged himself more indebted to his preceptor

than to his parent: but when age and labour had im­

paired the strength and perhaps the faculties of this pru­

dent counsellor, he retired from court, and abandoned

the youthful monarch to his own passions and those of

his favourites. By the fatal vicissitude of human affairs,

the same scenes were renewed at Ctesiphon, which had

been exhibited in Rome after the death of Marcus Anto­

ninus. The ministers of flattery and corruption, who had

been banished by the father, were recalled and cherished

by the son; the disgrace and exile of the friends of Nush­

irvan established their tyranny; and virtue was driven by

degrees from the mind of Hormouz, from his palace, and

from the government of the state. The faithful agents,'

Buzurg Mjhir may be considered, in his character and station, as the Seneca"of

the east; hat his virtues, and perhaps his faalts, are less known than those
of the Ro­

man, who appears to have been mnch more loquacious. The Persian sage was tho

person who imported from India the game of chess and the fables of Pilpay.
Such

has been the fame of his wisdom and virtues, that the Christians claim him as
a be­

liever in the gospel; and the Mahometans revere Buzurg as a premature
Mussulman.

D'Herbelot, Bibliotheqne Orienta-e, p. 218,

