CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 46Q

A daughter of Phocas, his only child, was given in Hi« *JJ

marriage to, the patrician Crispus,' and the royal images a. d. eio,

of the bride and bridegroom were indiscreetly placed in the Ootu et

circus by the side of the emperor. The father must desire

that his posterity should inherit the fruit of his crimes,

but the monarch was offended by this premature and po- ,>

pular association : the tribunes of the green faction, who

accused the officious error of their sculptors, were con­

demned to instant death: their lives were granted to the ,

prayers of the people; but Crispus might reasonably <

doubt whether a jealous usurper could forget and par­

don his involuntary competition. The green faction was

alienated by the ingratitude of Phocas and the loss of

their privileges; every province of the empire was ripe

for rebellion; and Heraclius, exarch of Africa, persisted

above two years in refusing all tribute and obedience to

the centurion who disgraced the throne of Constantino­

ple. By the secret emissaries of Crispus and the senate,

the independent exarch was solicited to save and to go­

vern his country: but his ambition was chilled, by age,

and he resigned the dangerous enterprise to his son He­

raclius, and to Nicetas, the son of Gregory his friend and

lieutenant. The powers of Africa were armed by the two

adventurous youths; they agreed that the one should

navigate the fleet from Carthage to Constantinople, that

the other should lead an army through Egypt andA.sia,

and that the imperial purple should be the reward of di­

ligence and success. A faint rumour of their under-

staking was conveyed to the ears of Phocas, and the wife .

and mother of the younger Heraclius were secured as the

hostages of his faith: but the treacherous art of Crispus

extenuated the distant peril, the means of defence were

neglected or delayed, and the tyrant supinely slept till

1777.) -roc -rugawiSo? o Siwxaflejtro; xai BiofyQcpcs Spaxcvy. The latter
epithet is jast—

bat the corrupter of life was easily vanquished.

*" In the1 writers, and in the copies of those writers, there is such hesitation hetween  
the names of Priscus and Crispus, (Ducange, Fam. Bj'zant. p. 111.) that I have

been tempted to identify the son-in-taw of Phocas with the hero five times
victorious

ov«r the Ava'r».

