CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 305

forfeited the esteem and affection of the Romans. The

design of the African and Italian wars was boldly conceiv­

ed and executed: and his penetration discovered the ta­

lents of Belisarius in the camp, of Narses in the palace.

But the name of the emperor is eclipsed by the names of

his victorious generals; and Belisarius still lives, to up­

braid the envy and ingratitude of his sovereign. The

partial favour of mankind applauds the genius of a con­

queror, who leads and directs his subjects in the exercise

of arms. The characters of Philip II. and of Justinian

are distinguished by the cold ambition which delights in

war, and declines the dangers of the field. Yet a colos­

sal statue of bronze represented the emperor on horse­

back, preparing to march against the Persians in the ha­

bit and armour of Achilles. In the great square before

the church of St. Sophia, this monument was raised on a

brass column and a stone pedestal of seven steps; and

the pillar of Theodosius, which weighed seven thousand

four hundred pounds of silver, was removed from the

same place by the avarice and vanity of Justinian. Fu­

ture princes were more just or indulgent to his memory;

the elder Andronicus, in the beginning of the fourteenth

century, repaired and beautified his equestrian statue:

since the fall of the empire, it has been melted into can­

non by the victorious Turks,4

I shall conclude this chapter with the comets, the Come ts,

earthquakes, and the plague, which astonished or afflict- tlas^Ji

ed the age of Justinian.

I. In the fifth year of his reign, and in the month of

September, a comet" was seen during twenty days in the

western quarter of the heavens, and which shot its rays

into the north. Eight years afterward, while the sun

t See in the C. P. Christiana of Ducange, (lib. 1. c. 24. no. 1.) a chain of
original

testimonies, from Prooopius in the sixth, to Gyllius in the sixteenth,
century.

e The first comet is mentioned by John Malata, (tom. 2. p. 190. 219.) and
Theo-

phanes; (p. 151.) the seoond by Procopius. (Persic. lib. 2. c. 4.) Yet I
strongly

suspect their identity. The paleness of the sun (Vandal, lib. 2. C. 14.) is
supplied

by Theopuines (pv 158.) to a different year.

