CHAP. XLII.] OP" THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 143

cease of his father, Zathus was exalted to the regal dig­

nity by the favour of the great king; but the pious youth

abhorred the ceremonies of the Magi, and sought, in

the palace of Constantinople, an orthodox baptism, a no­

ble wife, and the alliance of the emperor Justinian. The

king of Lazica was solemnly invested with the diadem,

and his cloak and tunic of white silk, with a gold border,

displayed, in rich embroidery, the figure of his new pa­

tron; who soothed the jealousy of the Persian court,

and excused the revolt of Colchos, by the venerable

names of hospitality and religion. The common inte­

rest of both empires imposed on the Colchians the duty

of guarding the passes of mount Caucasus, where a wall

of sixty miles is now defended by the monthly service of

the musketeers of Mingrelia.

But this honourable connexion was soon corrupted Revolt and

by the avarice and ambition of the Romans. Degraded Sn*? 80

from the rank of allies, the Lazi were incessantly re-

minded, by words and actions, of their dependant state. —54?.

At the distance of a day's journey beyond the Apsarus,

they beheld the rising fortress of Petra,° which com­

manded the maritime country to the south of the Pha-

sis. Instead of being protected by the valour, Colchos

was insulted by the licentiousness, of foreign merce­

naries; the benefits of commerce were converted into

base and vexatious monopoly; and Gubazes, the native

prince, was reduced to a pageant of royalty, by the supe­

rior influence of the officers of Justinian. -Disappointed

in their expectations of Christian virtue, the indignant

Lazi reposed some confidence in the justice of an unbe­

liever. After a private assurance that their ambassador

should not be delivered to the Romans, they publicly so-

» Jolin Malala, Cbron. torn. 2. p. 134—137. Theophanes, p. 144. Hist. Miscell.

lib. 15. p. 103. The fact is authentic, but the dates seem loo recent. In
speaking

of their Persian allianoe, the Lazi contemporaries of Justinian employ the
most obso­

lete words—tv yjaj«f«!tin /uvnjutut;, wjoyowi, &o, Could they belong to a
connexion

which had not been dissolved above twenty years?

° The sole vestige of Petra subsists in the writings of Procopius and
Agnthias.

Most of the towns and castles of Lazica may be found by comparing their names
and

position with the map of Mingrelia, in Lauiberti.

