DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLt.

Scythia, where a small fine was allowed to expiate the

hasty sallies of intemperance and anger. Their com­

plaints were specious, their clamours were loud, and the

Romans were not averse to the example of disorder and

impunity. But the rising sedition was appeased by the

authority and eloquence of the general: and he repre­

sented to the assembled troops the obligation of justice,

the importance of discipline, the rewards of piety and

virtue, and the unpardonable guilt of murder, which, in

his apprehension, was aggravated rather than excused by

the vice of intoxication.1 In the navigation from the

Hellespont to Peloponnesus, which the Greeks, after the

siege of Troy, had performed in four days,"1 the fleet of

Belisarius was guided in their course by his master-gal­

ley, conspicuous in the day by the redness of the sails,

and in the night by the torches blazing from the mast­

head. It was the duty of the pilots, as they steered be­

tween the islands, and turned the capesof Malea and

Taenarium, to preserve the just order and regular inter­

vals of such a multitude of ships; as the wind was fair

and moderate, their labours were not unsuccessful, and

the troops were safely disembarked at Methone on the

Messenian coast, to repose themselves for a while after

the fatigues of the sea. In this place they experienced

how avarice, invested with authority, may sport with the

lives of thousands which are bravely exposed for the pub­

lic service. According to military practice, the bread

or biscuit of the Romans was twice prepared in the oven,

and a diminution of one-fourth was cheerfully allowed

for the loss of weight. To gain this miserable profit,

and to save the expense of wood, the prefect John of

Cappadocia had given orders that the flour should be

'1 I have read of a Greek legislator, who inflicted a double penalty on tbo
crimes

committed in a state of intoxication; but it seems agreed that this was rather
a poli­

tical than a moral law.

.' m Or even in three days, since they anchored the first evening inthe
neighbouring

isle ofTenedos: the second day they sailed to Lesbos, the third to the
promontory

of Eobosa, and on the fourth they reached Argos. (Homer, Odyss. P. 130—183.

.Wood's Essay on Homer, p. 40—46.) A pirate sailed from the Hellespont lu the

seaport at Sparta in three days. (Xenophon, Hellen. lib. 2. c. 1.)

