46 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

in which the Roman Cyrus is degraded into an odious

and contemptible tyrant, in which both the emperor and

his consort Theodora are seriously represented as two

demons, who had assumed a human form for the de­

struction of mankind.5 Such base inconsistency must

doubtless sully the reputation, and detract from the cre­

dit, of Procopius: yet, after the venom of his malignity

has been suffered to exhale, the residue of the anecdotes,

even the most disgraceful facts, some of which had been

tenderly hinted in his public history, are established by

their internal evidence, or the authentic monuments of

the times.' From these various materials, I shall now

proceed to describe the reign of Justinian, which will

Division of deserve and occupy an ample space. The present chap-

JusUniiui.°' ter will explain the elevation and character of Theodora,

the factions of the circus, and the peaceful administra­

tion of the sovereign of the east. In the three succeed­

ing chapters, I shall relate the wars of Justinian which

achieved the conquest of Africa and Italy; and I shall

follow the victories of Belisarius and Narses, without

disguising the vanity of their triumphs, or the hostile

virtue of the Persian and Gothic heroes. The series of

this and the following volume will embrace the jurispru­

dence and theology of the emperor; the controversies

and sects which still divide the oriental church; the re­

formation of the Roman law, which is obeyed or respected

by the nations of modern Europe.

Birtii and I. In the exercise of supreme power, the first act of

empressth<> Justinian was to divide it with the woman whom he

Theodora. °f Kragrios is a poor objection. Baronins (A. D. 548. no. 24.)
regrets the loss of

this secret history: it was then in the Vatican library, in his own custody,
and was

first published sixteen years after his death, with the learned, but partial,
notes of

Nicholas Alemannus. (Ludg. 1623.)

5 Justinian an ass—the perfect likeness of Domitian—(Anecdot. c.
8.)—Theodora's

lovers driven from her bed by rival demons—her marriage foretold with a great
de­

mon—a monk saw the prince of the demons, instead of Justinian, ou the
throne—the

• servants who watched, beheld a face without features, a body walking without
a

bead, &o. &c Procopius declares his own and his friends belief in these
diabolical

stories, (c. 12.)

1 Montesquieu (Considerations sur la Grandeur et la Decadence des Remains,

c. 20.) gives credit to these anecdotes, as connected, 1. with the weakness of
the empire j

and, 2. with the instahility of Justinian's laws.

