'DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

condemned to support a gamester, a drunkard, or a li­

bertine, unless he were guilty of homicide, poison, or

sacrilege, in which cases the marriage, as it should seem,

might have been dissolved by the hand of the execu­

tioner. But the sacred right of the husband was inva­

riably maintained to deliver his name and family from

the disgrace of adultery: the list of mortal sins, either

male or female, was curtailed and enlarged by successive

regulations, and the obstacles of incurable impotence,

long absence, and monastic profession, were allowed to

rescind the matrimonial obligation. Whoever trans­

gressed the permission of the law, was subject to various

and heavy penalties. The woman was stripped of her

wealth and ornaments, without excepting the bodkin of

her hair: if the man introduced a new bride into his

bed, her fortune might be lawfully seized by the ven­

geance of his exiled wife. Forfeiture was sometimes

commuted to a fine; the fine was sometimes aggravated

by transportation to an island, or imprisonment in a mo­

nastery: the injured parjty was released from the bonds

of marriage; but the offender, during life or a term

of years, was disabled from the repetition of nuptials.

The successor of Justinian yielded to the prayers of

his unhappy subjects, and restored the liberty of

divorce by mutual consent: the civilians were unani­

mous/ the theologians were divided,1 and the ambir

guous word, which contains the precept of Christ, is

flexible to any interpretation that the wisdom of a legis­

lator can demand.

P The Institutes are silent, but we may consult the Code6 of Theodosias, (lib.
S.

tit. 16. with Godefroy's Commentary, tom 1. p. 310—315.) and Justinian, (lib.
5.

tit. 17.) the Pandects, (lib. 24. tit. 2.) and the Novels. (22. 117. 127. 134.
140.

Justinian fluctuated to the last between civil and ecclesiastical law.

1 In pure Greek, no^ija is not a common word ; nor can the proper meaning,
for­

nication, be strictly applied to matrimonial sin. In a figurative sense, how
far, and

to what offences, may it be extended? Did Christ speak the Rabhinical or
Syriao

tongue? Of what original word is wopveia the translation? How variously is
that

Greek word translated in the versions ancient and modern! There are two (Mark

x. 11. Luke xvi. 18.) to one (Matthew xix. 9.)that such ground of divorce was
not

excepted by Jesus. Some critics have presumed to think, by an evasive answers
he

avoided the giving oB'ence either to the school of Sammai or to that of
Hillel. (Selden,

Uxor Ebraica, lib. 3. c. 18—22. 28. 31.) - 'i

