CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 35

nesses of honourable rank, perhaps of infamous reputa­

tion, attested the treasonable designs of the Roman pa­

trician.0 Yet his innocence must be presumed, since he

was deprived by Theodoric of the means of justification,

and rigorously confined in the tower of Pavia, while the

senate, at the distance of five hundred miles, pronounced

a sentence of confiscation and death against the most il­

lustrious of its members. At the command of the bar­

barians, the occult science of a philosopher was stigma­

tized with the names of sacrilege and magic.d A devout

and dutiful attachment to the senate was condemned as

criminal by the trembling voices of the senators them­

selves; and their ingratitude deserved the wish or predic­

tion of Boethius, that, after him, none should be found

guilty of the same offence/

While Boethius, oppressed with fetters, expected each His imPri-

, , soument

moment the sentence or the stroke of death, he com- »nd death,

posed in the tower of Pavia the Consolation of Philosophy; A' '324'

a golden volume, not unworthy of the leisure of Plato

or Tully, but which claims incomparable merit from the

barbarism of the times, and the situation of the author.

The celestial guide, whom he had so long invoked at

Rome and Athens, now condescended to illumine his

dungeon, to revive his courage, and to pour into his

wounds her salutary balm. She taught him to compare

his long prosperity and his recent distress, and to con­

ceive new hopes from the inconstancy of fortune. Rea­

son had informed him of the precarious condition of her

gifts; experience had satisfied him of their real value;

0 The characters of his two delators, Basilius, (Var. 2. 10, 1 1. 4. 22.) and
Opilio,

(5. 41. 8. 16.) are illustrated, not much to their honour, in the Epistles of
Cassio-

dorins, which likewise mention Decoratus, (5. 31.) the worthless colleague of
Boe­

thius. (lib. 3. pros. 4. p. 193.)

d A severe inquiry was instituted into the crime of magic : (Var. 4. 22, 23.
9. 18.)

and it wad believed that many necromancers had escaped by making their jailors

mad ; for mad, I should read drunk.

e Boethius had composed his own Apology, (p. 53.) perhaps more interesting
than

his Consolation. We must be content with the general view of his honours,
prinei*.

pies, persecution, &c. (lib. 1. pros. 4. p. 42—62.) which may be compared with
the

short and weighty words of the Valesian Fragment, (p. 723.) An anonymous
writer

(Sinner, Catalog. MSS. Bibliot. Bern. tom. i. p. 287.) charges him home with
ho­

nourable and patriotic treason.

