DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

extent, but the extent of a camp would be easily circum­

scribed within the limits of a city; and its martial inha­

bitants must be thinly scattered over the face of a large

country. When Alboin descended from the Alps, he

invested his nephew, the first duke of Friuli, with the

command of the province and the people; but the pru­

dent Gisulf would have declined the dangerous office,

unless he had been permitted to choose, among the no­

bles of the Lombards, a sufficient number of families' to

form a perpetual colony of soldiers and subjects. In the

progress of conquest, the same option could not be grant­

ed to the dukes of Brescia or Bergamo, of Pavia or Tu­

rin, of Spoleto or Beneventum; but each of these, and

each of their colleagues, settled in his appointed district

with a band of followers who resorted to his standard in

war and his tribunal in peace. Their attachment was free

and honourable: resigning the gifts and benefits which

they had accepted, they might emigrate with their fami­

lies into the jurisdiction of another duke; but their ab­

sence from the kingdom was punished with death, as a

crime of military desertion.5 The posterity of the first

conquerors struck a deeper root in the soil, which, by

every motive of interest and honour, they were bound to

defend. A Lombard was born the soldier of his king

and his duke; and the civil assemblies of the nation dis­

played the banners, and assumed the appellation, of a re­

gular army. Of this army, the pay and the rewards were

drawn from the conquered provinces; and the distribu­

tion, which was not effected till after the death of Alboin,

is disgraced by the foul marks of injustice and rapine.

Many of the most wealthy Italians were slain or banished;

the remainder were divided among the strangers, and a

tributary obligation was imposed (under the name of

hospitality), of paying to the Lombards a third part of the

r Paul, lib. 2. o. 9. He calls these families or generations by the Teutonic
name

of Faras, which is likewise used in the Lomhard laws. The humble deacon was
not in­

sensible of the nohility of his own race. See lib. 4. c. 39.

■ Compare no. 3 aud 177 of the laws ot Rotharis.

