314 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAT. XLIV.

versal corruption of the air, that the pestilence, which

hurst forth in the fifteenth year of Justinian, was not

checked or alleviated by any difference of the seasons.

In time, its first malignity was abated and dispersed; the

disease alternately languished and revived; but it was

not till the end of a calamitous period of fifty-two years,

that mankind recovered their health, or the air resumed

its pure and salubrious quality. No facts have been pre­

served to sustain an account, or even a conjecture, of

the numbers that perished in this extraordinary mortal­

ity. I only find, that during three months, five, and at

length ten thousand persons died each day at Constanti­

nople; that many cities of the east were left vacant, and

that in several districts of Italy the harvest and the vin­

tage withered on the ground. The triple scourge of

war, pestilence, and famine, afflicted the subjects of Jus­

tinian, and his reign is disgraced by a visible decrease of

the human species, which has never been repaired in,

some of the fairest countries of, the globe.c

CHAP. XLIV.

Idea of the Roman jurisprudence.—The laws of the kings.—The twelve tables of
the

decemvirs.—The laws of the people.—The decrees of the senate.—The edicts of

the magistrates and emperors.—Authority of the civilians.—Code, pandects, no­

vels, and institntes, of Justinian.—I. Rights of persons.—-II. Rights of
things.—

Ill, Private injuries and actions.—IV. Climes and punishments.

The civil Xhe vain titles of the victories of Justinian are crumbled

law. ^us^., kuj. ^e name Q£ j.jje legislator is inscribed on

a fair and everlasting monument. Under his reign, and

by his care, the civil jurisprudence was digested in the

immortal works of the Code, the Pandects, and the

c After some figures of rhetoric, the sands of the sea, &c. Frocopius
(Anecdot,

C.18.) attempts a more definite account: that juugta&a; juvgixiw (xupia; had
been exter­

minated under the reign of the imperial demon. The expression is obscure in
gram­

mar and arithmetic, and a literal interpretation would produce several
millions of

millions. Aleraannus, (p. 80.) and. Cousin, (lorn. 3. p. 178.) translate this
passage

"two hundred millions;" but I am ignorant of their motives. If we drop the
juuput-

8ac, tfie remaining fcupta&uv juuput;, a myriad of myriads, would furnish one
hundred

millions, a Bomber not wholly inadmissible.

