CHAP. XLVI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

eagles, the true wood of the holy cross was restored to

the importunate demands of the successor of Constantine.

The victor was not ambitious of enlarging the weakness

of the empire; the son of Chosroes abandoned without

regret the conquests of his father; the Persians who eva­

cuated, the cities of Syria and Egypt were honourably con­

ducted to the frontier, and a war which had wounded the

Vitals of the two monarchies, produced no change in their

external and relative situation. The return of Heraclius

from Tauris to Constantinople was a perpetual triumph;

and after the exploits of six glorious campaigns, he peace­

ably enjoyed the sabbath of his toils. After a long im­

patience, the senate, the clergy, and the people, went forth

to meet their hero, with tears and acclamations, with olive

branches and innumerable lamps: he entered the capital

in a chariot drawn by four elephants; and as soon as the

emperor could disengage himself from the tumult of pub­

lic joy, he tasted more genuine satisfaction in the em­

braces of his mother and his son.3

The succeeding year was illustrated by a triumph of a

very different kind, the restitution of the true cross to

the holy sepulchre. Heraclius performed in person the

pilgrimage of Jerusalem, the identity of the relic was ve­

rified by the discreet patriarch,' and this august ceremony

has been commemorated by the annual festival of the

exaltation of the cross. Before the emperor presumed

to tread the consecrated ground, he was instructed to

strip himself of the diadem and purple, the pomp and va­

nity of the world: but in the judgment of his clergy, the

persecution of the Jews was more easily reconciled with

the precepts of the gospel. He again ascended his throne

to receive the congratulations of the ambassadors of

• The burden of Corneille's song,

"Montrez Heraclius au people qui Tattend,"

is muoh better suited to the present occasion. See his triumph in Theophanes,

(p. 272, 273.) and Nicephorus, (p. 15, 16.) The life of the mother and
tenderness

of the son are attested by George of Pisidia, (Bell. Abar. 255, &o. p. 49.)
The me­

taphor of the sabbath is used, somewhat profanely, by these Byzantine
Christians.

'See Baronius, (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 628. no. 1—4.) Entycliiiis, (Annal. torn.
2.

p. 240—248.) Nicephorus, (Brev. p. 15.) The seals of the case had never been

broken ; and this preservation of Ute cross is ascribed (under God) to the
devotion

of queen Sira.

