CHAP. XLII.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

computed by millions; one of their effective armies com

sisted of four hundred thousand soldiers, and in less than

fifty years they were connected in peace and war with

the Romans, the Persians, and the Chinese. In their

northern limits, some vestige may be discovered of the

form and situation of Kamtchatka, of a people of hunt­

ers and fishermen, whose sledges were drawn by dogs,

and whose habitations were buried in the earth. The

Turks were ignorant of astronomy; but the observation

taken by some learned Chinese, with a gnomon of eight

feet, fixes the royal camp in the latitude of forty-nine

degrees, and marks their extreme progress within three,

or at least ten degrees, of the polar circle.d Among

their southern conquests, the most splendid was that of

the Nepthalites or White Huns, a polite and warlike peo­

ple, who possessed the commercial cities of Bochara and

Samarcand, who had vanquished the Persian monarch,

and carried their victorious arms along the banks, and

perhaps to the mouth, of the Indus. On the side of

the west, the Turkish cavalry advanced to the lake Msd-

otis. They passed that lake on the ice. The khan,

who dwelt at the foot of mount Altai, issued his com­

mands for the siege of Bosphorus,0 a city, the voluntary

subject of Rome, and whose princes had formerly been

the friends of Athens/ To the east, the Turks invaded

China, as often as the vigour of the government was re­

laxed: and I am taught to read in the history of the

times, that they mowed down their patient enemies like

hemp or grass; and that the mandarins applauded the

wisdom of an emperor who repulsed these barbarians

with golden lances. This extent of savage empire com-

'd Visdelou, p. 141. 151. The fact, though it strictly belongs to a
subordinate and

successive tribe, may be introduced here.

e Procopios, Persic, lib. 1. c. 12. lib. 2. c.3. Peyssonnel (Observations sur
les

Peoples Barbares, p. 99, 100.) defines the distance between Catt'a and the old
Bos­

phorus at sixteen long Tartar leagues.

'f See, in a Memoir of M. <le Boze, (Mem. de 1'Academie des Inscriptions,
torn. G.

p. 549—565.) the ancient kings and medals of the Cimmerian Bosphorus ; and the

gratitude of Alliens, in the Oration of Demosthenes" against Iicptines. (in
llei-ke.

Orator. Grsc. torn. 1. p. 466* 467.)

