CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 113

drunkenness, when they were scattered with a profuse

hand among the populace. Notwithstanding these pre­

cautions and his own example, the succession of consuls

finally ceased in the thirteenth year of Justinian, whose

despotic temper might be gratified by the silent extinction

of a title which admonished the Romans of their ancient

freedom." Yet the annual consulship still lived in the

minds of the people: they fondly expected its speedy

restoration; they applauded the gracious condescension

of successive princes, by whom it was assumed in the

first year of their reign; and three centuries elapsed,

after the death of Justinian, before that obsolete dignity,

which had been suppressed by custom, could be abolished

by law/ The imperfect mode of distinguishing each

year by the name of a magistrate, was usually supplied

by the date of a permanent era: the creation of the

world, according to the Septuagint version, was adopted

by the Greeks ;y and the Latins, since the age of Charle­

magne, have computed their time from the birth of

Christ.2

11 Procopios, in Anecdot. c. 26. Aleman. p. 106. In the eighteenth year after
the

consulship of Basilins, according to the reckoning of Marcellinus, Victor,
Marias,

&e. the secret history was composed, and, in the eyes of Frocopias, the
consulship

was finally abolished.

* By Leo the philosopher. (Novell. 94. A. D. 886—911.) SeePagi (Dissertat.  
Hypatica, p. 3125—362.), and Diicange, (Gloss. Graec. p. 1635,1636.) Even the

title was vilified; consulates oodicilli . . . . vilescnnt, says the emperor
himself.

v According to Julius Africanus, &c. the world was created the first of
September,

five thousand five hundred and eight years, three months, and twenty-five days
be­

fore the hirth of Christ; (see Pezron, Antiquite des Tems defendiie, p.
20—28.) and

tins era has been used by the Greeks, the Oriental Christians, and even by the
Rus­

sians, till the reign of Peter I. The period, however arhitrary, is clear and
conve­

nient. Of the seven thousand two hundred and ninety-six years, which are
supposed

to elapse since the creation, we shall find three thousand of ignorance and
darkness;

two thousand either fabulous or doubtful; one thousand of ancient history,
commenc­

ing with the Persian empire, and the republics of Rome and Athens; one
thousand

from the fall of the Roman empire in the west to the discovery of America; and
the

remaining two hundred and ninety-six will almost complete three centuries of
the

modern state of Europe and mankind. I regret this chronology so far preferable
to

our double and perplexed method of counting hackward and forward the years
before:

and after the Christian era.

1 The era of the world has prevailed in the east since the sixth general
council.

(A. D. 681.) In the west the Christian era was first invented in the sixth
century:

it was propagated in the eighth by the authority and writings of venerable
Bede; hat

it was not till the tenth that the use became legal and popular. See l'Art de
verifier

les Dates, Dissert. Preliminaire, p. 3.12. Dictionaire Diplomatique, tom. 1.
p. 329

oo7. the works of a laborious society of Benedictine monks.

