DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLXt*

forces which had wintered in the Pontic regions; and

from the mouth of the Phasis to the Caspian sea, encou­

raged his subjects and allies to march with the successors

of Constantine under the faithful and victorious banner

of the cross. When the legions of Lucullus and Pom-

pey first passed the Euphrates, they blushed at their easy-

victory over the natives of Armenia. But the long ex­

perience of war had hardened the minds and bodies of

that effeminate people; their zeal and bravery were ap­

proved in the service of a declining empire; they abhor­

red and feared the usurpation of the house ofSassin, and

the memory of persecution envenomed their pious hatred

of the enemies of Christ. The limits of Armenia, as it

had been ceded to the emperor Maurice, extended as far

as the Araxes; the river submitted to the dignity of a

bridge ;r and Heraclius, in the footsteps of Mark Antony,

advanced towards the city of Tauris or Gandzaca,* the

ancient and modern capital of one of the provinces of

Media. At the head of forty thousand men, Chosroes

himself had returned from some distant expedition to

oppose the progress of the Roman arms; but he retreat­

ed on the approach of Heraclius, declining the generous

'alternative of peace or battle. Instead of half a million

of inhabitants, which have been ascribed to Tauris under

the reign of the Sophys, the city contained no more than

three thousand houses: but the value of the royal trea­

sures was enhanced by a tradition, that they were the

spoils of Croesus, which had been transported by Cyrus,

from the citadel of Sardes. The rapid conquests of He­

raclius were suspended only by the winter season ; a mo-

r Et pontem indignatus Araxes. Virgil, JEae'id, 8. 728.

The river Araxes is noisy, rapid, vehement, and, with the melting of the
snows, ir­

resistible; the strongest and most massy bridges are swept away by the
current; and

its indignation is attested by the ruins of many arches near the old town of
Zulfa.

Voyages de Chardin, tom. 1. p. 252. .

« Chardin, tom. l.p. 255—259. With the orientals, (d'Herbelot, Biblioth.
Orient.

p. 834.) he ascribes the foundation of Tauris, or Tebris, to Zobeide, the wife
of the

famous khalif Haruun Alrashid ; but it appears to have been more ancient ; and
the

names of Gandzaca, Gazaca, Gaza, are expressive of the royal treasure. The
uum-

beroffive hundred and fifty thousand inhahitants is reduced by Chardin from
one

million one hundred thousand the popular estimate.

