DECLINE AND f ALL [CHAP. XLIV.

the enemies of Justinian; that the jurisprudence of an­

cient Rome was reduced to ashes by the author of the

Pandects, from the vain persuasion, that it was now

either false or superfluous. Without usurping an office

so invidious, the emperor might safely commit to igno­

rance and time the accomplishment of this destructive

wish. Before the invention of printing and paper, the

labour and the materials of writing could be purchased

only by the rich; and it may reasonably be computed,

that the price of books was a hundred fold their present

value." Copies were slowly multiplied and cautiously

renewed: the hopes of profit tempted the sacrilegious

scribes to erase the characters of antiquity, and Sopho­

cles or Tacitus were obliged to resign the parchment to

missals, homilies and the golden legend.p If such was

the fate of the most beautiful compositions of genius,

what stability could be expected for the dull and barren

works of an obsolete science? The books of jurispru­

dence were interesting to few, and entertaining to none;

their value was connected with present use, and they

sunk for ever as soon as that use was superseded by the

innovations of fashion, superior merit, or public autho­

rity. In the age of peace and learning, between Cicero

and the last of the Antonines, many losses had been al­

ready sustained, and some luminaries of the school, or

Forum, were known only to the curious by tradition and

report. Three hundred and sixty years of disorder and

decay accelerated the progress of oblivion; and it may

fairly be presumed, that of the writings, which Justinian

is accused of neglecting, many were no longer to be

found in the libraries of the east.q The copies of Papi-

° When Fust, or Paustus, suld at Paris his first printed hibles as
manuscripts, the

price of a parchment copy was reduced from four or five hundred to sixty,
fifty, and

forty crowns. The public was at first pleased with the cheapness, and at
length pro-

Yoked by the discovery of the fraud. (Mattaire, Annal. Typograph. tom. 1. p.
12.first

edition.)

P This execrable practice prevailed from the eighth, and more especially from
the

twelth, century, when it became almost universal. (Montfaucon, in the Memoires
de

l'Academie, tom. 6. p. 606, &c. Bibliotheque Raisonnee de la Diplomatique,
tom. 1.

p. 176.)

1 Pomponins (Pandect, lib. 1. tit, 2. leg. 5.) observes, that of the three
founders

