DECLINE AND FALL [CHAF. XU1I.

historian Procopius, escaped to Sicijy: two-thirds of the

army were involved in the guilt of treason; and eight

thousand insurgents, assembling in the field of Bulla,

elected Stoza for their chief, a private soldier, who pos­

sessed, in a superior degree, the virtues of a rebel; Un­

der the mask of freedom, his eloquence could leadj or at

least impel, the passions of his equals. He raised him­

self to a level with Belisarius, and the nephew of the

emperor, by daring to encounter them in the field; and

the victorious generals were compelled to acknowledge,

that Stoza deserved a purer cause and a more legitimate

command. Vanquished in battle, he dexterously em­

ployed the arts of negotiation; a Roman army was se­

duced from their allegiance, and the chiefs, who had

trusted to his faithless promise, were murdered, by his

order, in a church of Numidia. When every resourcej

either of force or perfidy, was exhausted, Stoza, with

some desperate Vandals, retired to the wilds of Mauri­

tania, obtained the daughter of a barbarian prinCe, and

eluded the pursuit of his enemies, by the report of his

death. The personal weight of Belisarius, the rank, the

spirit, and the temper, of Germanus, the emperor's ne­

phew, and the vigour and success of the second adminis­

tration of the eunuch Solomon, restored the modesty of

the camp, and maintained, for a while,. the tranquillity of

Africa. But the vices of the Byzantine court were felt

jn that distant province; the troops complained that they

were neither paid nor relieved * and' as Soon as the public

disorders were sufficiently mature, Stoza was again alive^

in arms, and at the gates of Carthage. He feH in a sin­

gle combat, but he smiled in the agonies of death, when

he was informed that his own javelin had reached the

heart of his antagonist. The example of Stoza, and the

assurance that a fortunate soldier had been the first king,

encouraged the ambition of Gontharis, and he promised,

by a private treaty, to divide Africa with the Moors, if,

with their dangerous aid, he should ascend the throne of

