CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 77

action, which exceeded, perhaps in a tenfold proportion,

the ability of the farmer; and his distress was aggravated

by the partial injustice of weights and measures, and the

expense and labour of distant carriage. In a time of

scarcity, an extraordinary requisition was made to the ad­

jacent provinces of Thrace, Bithynia, and Phrygia; but

the proprietors, after a wearisome journey and a perilous

navigation, received so inadequate a compensation, that

they would have chosen the alternative of delivering

both the corn and price at the doors of their granaries.

These precautions might indicate a tender solicitude for

the welfare of the capital; yet Constantinople did not

escape the rapacious despotism of Justinian. Till his

reign, the straits of the Bosphorus and Hellespont were

open to the freedom of trade, and nothing was prohibited

except the exportation of arms for the service of the

barbarians. At each of these gates of the city, a praetor

was stationed, the minister of imperial avarice; heavy

customs were imposed on the vessels and their merchan­

dise; the oppression was retaliated on the helpless con­

sumer; the poor were afflicted by the artificial scarcity,

and exorbitant price of the market; and a people,

accustomed to depend on the liberality of their prince,

might sometimes complain of the deficiency of water

and bread/ The aerial tribute, without a name, a law,

or a definite object, was an annual gift of 120,000/.

which the emperor accepted from his praetorian pre­

fect; and the means of payment were abandoned to

the discretion of that powerful magistrate. IV. Even Monopo-

such a tax was less intolerable than the privilege of

monopolies, which checked the fair competition of

industry, and, for the sake of a small and dishonest

gain, imposed an arbitrary burden on the wants and

luxury of the subject. "As soon (I transcribe the anec­

dotes) as the exclusive sale of silk was usurped by the

'John Malala (tom. 2. p. 232.) mentions the want of bread, and !t,ooaras (lib.
14.

f . 63.) the leaden niues, which Justinian, or his servants, stole from the
aqueducts*

