CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE;

the eyes and ears of the king, informed him of the pro­

gress of disorder, that the provincial governors flew to

their prey with the fierceness of lions and eagles, and that

their rapine and injustice would teach the most loyal of

his subjects to abhor the name and authority of their so­

vereign. The sincerity of this advice was punished with

death, the murmurs of the cities were despised, their tu­

mults were quelled by military execution; the intermediate

powers between the throne and the people were abolished;

and the childish vanity of Hormouz,who affected the daily

use of the tiara, was fond of declaring, that he alone would

be the judge as well as the master of his kingdom. In

every word, and in every action, the son of Nushirvan de­

generated from the virtues of his father. His avarice de­

frauded the troops; his jealous caprice degraded the sa­

traps; the palace, the tribunals, the waters of the Tigris,

were stained with the blood of the innocent, and the tyrant

exulted in the sufferings and execution of thirteen thou­

sand victims. As the excuse of his cruelty, he sometimes

condescended to observe, that the fears of the Persians

would be productive of hatred, and that their hatred must

terminate in rebellion: but he forgot that his own guilt

and folly had inspired the sentiments which he deplored,

and prepared the event which he so justly apprehended.

Exasperated by long and hopeless oppression, the pro­

vinces of Babylon, Susa, and Carmania, erected the stand­

ard of revolt; and the princes of Arabia, India, and Scy-

thia, refused the customary tribute to the unworthy

successor of Nushirvan. The arms of the Romans, in

slow sieges and frequent inroads, afflicted the frontiers

of Mesopotamia and Assyria; one of their generals pro­

fessed himself the disciple of Scipio, and the soldierswere

animated by a miraculous image of Christ, whose mild

aspect should never have been displayed in the front of

battle.' At the same time the eastern provinces of Persia

1 See the imitation of Scipio in Theopbylact, lib. 1. o. 14. the image of
Christ,

lib. 2. c. 3. Hereafter I shall speak more amply of the Christian images—1 had
al­

most said idols. This, if I am not mistaken, is the oldest sjfstftmiunt of
divine ma­

2 G 2

