CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

these extraordinary concessions, the successful agent of

Justinian hastened his journey to Constantinople; but

no sooner had he reached the Alban villa," than he was

recalled by the anxiety of Theodatus; and the dialogue

which passed between the king and the ambassador de­

serves to be represented in its original simplicity. —Are

you of opinion that the emperor will ratify this treaty?

Perfiaps. If he refuses, what consequence will ensue?

fVar. Will such a war be just or reasonable? Most as­

suredly: every one should act according to his character.

What is your meaning? You are a philosopher—Justi­

nian is emperor of the Romans: it ivould ill become the

disciple of Plato to shed the blood of thousands in his

private quarrel: the successor of Augustus should vindi­

cate his rights, and recover by arms the ancient provinces

of his empire." This reasoning might not convince,

but it was sufficient to alarm and subdue the weakness

of Theodatus; and he soon descended to his last offer,

that for the poor equivalent of a pension of 48,00O/.

sterling, he would resign the kingdom of the Goths and

Italians, and spend the remainder of his days in the in<-

nocent pleasures of philosophy and agriculture. Both

treaties were intrusted to the hands of the ambassador,

on the frail security of an oath, not to produce the se­

cond till the first had been positively rejected. The

event may be easily foreseen: Justinian required and ac­

cepted the abdication of the Gothic king. His indefa­

tigable agent returned from Constantinople to Ravenna,

with ample instructions; and a fair epistle, which praised

the wisdom and generosity of the royal philosopher,

granted his pension, with the assurance of such honours,

as a subject and a Catholic might enjoy; and wisely re­

ferred the final execution of the treaty, to the presence

and authority of Belisarius. But in the interval of sus-

° The ancient Alha was ruined in the first age of Rome. Qn the same spot, or
at

least in the neighbourhood, successively arose, 1. The villa of Pompey, &c.
'2. A

camp of the praetorian cohorts. 8. The modern episcopal city of Alhanam or
Alha-

no. (Procop. Goth. lib. 2. c. i. Clover. Hat. Antirj. tum. 8. p. 914.)

