DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

were artfully incensed against him by the remembrance

even of his pious hostilities. The emperor and his ne­

phew embraced him as the faithful and worthy champion

of the church and state; and gratefully adorned their

favourite with the titles of consul and general; but in

the seventh month of his consulship,Vitalian was stabbed

with seventeen wounds at the royal banquet;8 and Jus­

tinian, who inherited the spoil, was accused as the assas­

sin of a spiritual brother, to whom he had recently

pledged his faith in the participation of the Christian

mysteries.h After the fall of his rival, he was promoted,

without any claim of military service, to the office of

master-general of the eastern armies, whom it was his

duty to lead into the field against the public enemy.

But, in the pursuit of fame, Justinian might have lost his

present dominion over the age and weakness of his uncle;

and instead of acquiring by Scythian or Persian trophies

the applause of his countrymen,1 the prudent warrior

solicited their favour in the churches, the circus, and the

senate of Constantinople. The Catholics were attached

to the nephew of Justin, who, between the Nestorian

and Eutychian heresies, trod the narrow path of inflexi­

ble and intolerant orthodoxy.11 In the first days of the

new reign, he prompted and gratified the popular enthu­

siasm against the memory of the deceased emperor. After

a schism of thirty-four years, he reconciled the proud

and angry spirit of the Roman pontiff, and spread among

the Latins a favourable report of his pious respect for the

apostolic see. The thrones of the east were filled with

S His power, character, and intentions, are perfectly explained by the count
de

Boat. (tom. 9. p. 54—81.) He was great-grandson of Aspar, hereditary prince in

the Lesser Scythia, and count of the Gothic fitderati of Thrace. The Bessi,
whom

he could influence, are the minor Goths of Jornandes. (c. 51.)

tl Justinian patricii factione dioitur interfectus fuisse. (Victor Tununensis,
Chrnn.

in Thesaur. Temp. Scaliger, p. 2. p. 7.) Procopius (Anecdot. c. 7.) styles him
a

tyrant, but acknowledges the att\qmunU, which is well explained by Alemannus.

* In his earliest youth (plane adolescens) he had passed some time as a hostage  
with Theodoric. For this curious fact, Alemannus (ad Procop. Anecdot. c. 9. p.
34.

of the first edition) quotes a MS. history of Justinian, by his preceptor
Theophilus.

Ludewig (p. 143.) wishes to make him a soldier.

k The ecclesiastical history of Justinian will he shewn hereafter. See
Baronins,

A. D. 518—521. and the copious article Justinianus in the index to the seventh
volumo

of his Annals.

