]80 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI,

The Goihs The whole nation of the Ostrogoths had been as^

siege of sembled for the attack, and was almost entirely consumed

a.°d?538 m the siege of Rome. If any credit be due to an in­

ward, telligent spectator, one-third at least of their enormous

host was destroyed, in frequent and bloody combats

under the walls of the city. The bad fame and per­

nicious qualities of the summer air, might already be

imputed to the decay of agriculture and population; and

the evils of famine and pestilence were agravated by

their own licentiousness, and the unfriendly disposition

of the country. While Vitiges struggled with his for­

tune; while he hesitated between shame and ruin, his

retreat was hastened by domestic alarms. . The king of

the Goths was informed by trembling messengers, that

John the Sanguinary spread the devastations of war from

the Appennine to the Hadriatic; that the rich spoils and

innumerable captives of Picenum were lodged in the,for­

tifications of Rimini; and that this formidable chief had

defeated his uncle, insulted his capital, and seduced, by

secret correspondence, the fidelity of his wife, the im­

perious daughter of Amalasontha. Yet, before he re­

tired, Vitiges made a last effort either to storm or to

surprise the city. A secret passage was discovered in

one of the aqueducts; two citizens of the Vatican were

tempted by bribes to intoxicate the guards of the Aure-<

lian gate; an attack was meditated on the walls beyond

the Tiber in a place which was not fortified with towers;

and the barbarians advanced, with torches and scaling-

ladders, to the assault of the Pincian gate. But every

attempt was defeated by the intrepid vigilance of Beli-

sarius and, his band of veterans, who, in the most pe­

rilous moments, did not regret the absence of their com­

panions ; and the Goths, alike destitute of hope and

subsistence, clamorously urged their departure, before"

the truce should expire, and the Roman cavalry should

again be united. One year and nine days after the com­

mencement of the siege, an army so lately strong and

