CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 403

the more stubborn barbarians sacrificed a she-goat, or per­

haps a captive, to the gods of their fathers.° The Lom­

bards, and their confederates, were united by their com­

mon attachment to a chief, who excelled in all the vir­

tues and vices of a savage hero; and the vigilance of Al-

boin provided an ample magazine of offensive and de­

fensive arms for the use of the expedition. The portable

wealth of the Lombards attended the march ; their lands

they cheerfully relinquished to the Avars, on the solemn

promise, which was made and accepted without a smile,

that if they failed in the conquest of Italy, these voluntary

exiles should be reinstated in their former possessions.

They might have failed, if Narses had been the anta- pisaffec-

gonist of the Lombards; and the veteran warriors, the death of

associates of his Gothic victory, would have encountered Nar*es-

with reluctance an enemy whom they dreaded and es­

teemed. But the weakness of the Byzantine court was

subservient to the barbarian cause; and it was for the

ruin of Italy, that the emperor once listened to the com­

plaints of his subjects. The virtues of Narses were

stained with avarice; and in his provincial reign of fif­

teen years he accumulated a treasure of gold and silver

which surpassed the modesty of a private fortune. His

government was oppressive or unpopular, and the gene­

ral discontent was expressed with freedom by the depu­

ties of Rome. Before the throne of Justin they boldly

declared, that their Gothic servitude had been more to­

lerable than the despotism of a Greek, eunuch ; and that,

unless their tyrant were instantly removed, they would

consult their own happiness in the choice of a master.

The apprehension of a revolt was urged by the voice of

envy and detraction, which had so recently triumphed

over the merits of Belisarius. A new exarch, Longinus,

was appointed to supersede the conqueror of Italy; and

the base motives of his recall were revealed in the in-

* Gregory the Roman (Dialog, lib. 3. c. 27,28. apud Baron. Annal. Ecoles. A. D.  
579. no. 10.) supposes that they likewise adored this she-goat. I know butbf
one

religion in which the god and the victim are the same.

