408 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

enjoyed the queen of the Lombards, and that his own

death, or the death of Alboin, must be the consequence

of such treasonable adultery. In this alternative, he

chose rather to be the accomplice than the victim of Ro­

samond," whose undaunted spirit was incapable of fear or

remorse. She expected, and soon found, a favourable

moment, when the king, oppressed with wine, had re­

tired from the table to his afternoon slumbers. His faith­

less spouse was anxious for his health and repose: the

gates of the palace were shut, the arms removed, the at­

tendants dismissed, and Rosamond, after lulling him to

rest by her tender caresses, unbolted the chamber-door,

and urged the reluctant conspirators to the instant execu­

tion of the deed. On the first alarm, the warrior started

from his couch; his sword, which he attempted to draw,

had been fastened to the scabbard by the hand of Rosa­

mond; and a small stool, his only weapon, could not

long protect him from the spears of the assassins. The

daughter of Cunimund smiled in his fall; his body was

buried under the staircase of the palace, and the grateful

posterity of the Lombards revered the tomb and the me­

mory of their victorious leader,

ud dath ambto°us Rosamond aspired to reign in the name

of her lover; the city and palace of Verona were awed

by her power, and a faithful band of her native Gepidai

was prepared to applaud the revenge, and to second the

wishes, of their sovereign. But the Lombard chiefs, who

fled in the first moments of consternation and disorder,

had resumed their courage and collected their powers;

and the nation, instead of submitting to her reign, de­

manded with unanimous cries, that justice should be ex­

ecuted on the guilty spouse and the murderers of their

king. She sought a refuge among the enemies of her

country, and a criminal who deserved the abhorrence of

x The classical reader will recollect the wife and murder of Candaules, so
agree­

ably told in the first hook of Herodotus. The choice of Gyges, aipsrai avras
trsoittvai,

may serve as the excuse of Peredeus; and this soft insinuation of an odious
idea has

been imitated by the best writers of antiquity. (Grnvius, ad Ciceron. Orat.
pro Mi-

lone, c. 10.) . ...

