428 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

laws of the Lombards, they are the genuine fruit of the

reason of the barbarians, who never admitted the bishops

of Italy to a seat in their legislative councils. But the

succession of their kings is marked with virtue and abi-r

lity; the troubled series of their annals is adorned with

fair intervals of peace, order, and domestic happiness;

and the Italians enjoyed a milder and more equitable go­

vernment, than any of the other kingdoms which had

been founded on the ruins of the western empire.1

Misery Amidst the arms of the Lombards, and under thedes-

of Rome. p0f-ism 0f ^e Gree]lSj we again inquire into the fate of

Rome,1" which had reached, about the close of the sixth

century, the lowest period of her depression. By the

removal of the seat of empire, and the successive loss of

the provinces, the sources of public and private opulence

were exhausted; the lofty tree, under whose shade the

nations of the earth had reposed, was deprived of its leaves

and branches, and the sapless trunk was left to wither on

the ground. The ministers of command, and the mes­

sengers of victory, no longer met on the Appian or Fla-

minian way; and the hostile approach of the Lombards

was often felt and continually feared. The inhabitants

of a potent and peaceful capital, who visit without an

anxious thought the garden of the adjacent country, will

faintly picture in their fancy the distress of the Romans;

they shut or opened their gates with a trembling hand,

beheld from the. walls the flames of their houses, and

heard the lamentations of their brethren, who were cou­

pled together like dogs, and dragged away into distant

slavery beyond, the sea and the mountains. 'Such inces­

sant alarms must annihilate the pleasures and interrupt

the labours of a rural life; and the Campagna of Rome

was speedily reduced to the state of a dreary wilderness,

1 Read the history of I'anl Warnefrid: particularly lib. 3. e. 16. Baronins
rejects

the praise, which appears to contradict the invectives of pope Gregory the
Great;

but Muratori (Annnli d'ltalia, tom. 5. p. 217.) presumes to insinuate that the
saint

may have magnified the faults of Arians and enemies.

1° The passages of the homilies of Gregory, which represent the miserable
state of

the city and country, are transcribed in the Annals of Baronius, A. D. 590.
no. 16.

A. D.595. no. 2, &o. &c.

