182 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

ment and despair, the Goths abandoned the siege of

Rimini, their tents, their standards, and their leaders;

and Vitiges, who gave or followed the example of flight,

Retire to never halted till he found a shelter within the walls and

Ravenna. c -n

morasses or Kavenna.

Jealonsy of To these walls, and to some fortresses destitute of

gralnis*" any mutual support, the Gothic monarchy was now re-

a. d. 538. duced. The provinces of Italy had embraced the party

of the emperor; and his army, gradually recruited to

the number of twenty thousand men, must have achieved

an easy and rapid conquest, if their invincible powers

had not been weakened by the discord of the Roman

chiefs. Before the end of the siege, an act of blood,

ambiguous and indiscreet, sullied the fair fame of Beli-

sarius. Presidius, a loyal Italian, as he fled from Ra­

venna to Rome, was rudely stopped by Constantine, the

military governor of Spoleto, and despoiled, even in a

church, of two daggers richly inlaid with gold and pre­

cious stones. As soon as the public danger had sub­

sided, Presidius complained of the loss and injury: his

complaint was heard, but the order of restitution was

disobeyed by the pride and avarice of the offender. Ex­

asperated by the delay, Presidius boldly arrested the

general's horse as he passed through the Forum; and,

with the spirit of a citizen, demanded the common bene­

fit of the Roman laws. The honour of Belisarius was

engaged; he summoned a council; claimed the obedi­

ence of his subordinate officer; and was provoked, by an

insolent reply, to call hastily for the presence of his

guards. Constantine, viewing their entrance as the

signal of death, drew his sword, and rushed on the ge­

neral, who nimbly eluded the stroke, and was protected

by his friends; while the desperate assassin was disarm­

ed, dragged into a neighbouring chamber, and executed,

or rather murdered, by the guards, at the arbitrary corn-

Death of mand of Belisarius.c In this hasty act of violence, the

Constan­

tine. « This transaction is related in the public history (Goth. lib. 2. o.
8.) with candour

