146 DECLINE AND FALL JcHAP. XLI.

their blood; support, with some impatience, the Saxon,

or Prussian yoke; and serve with secret and voluntary

allegiance, the descendant of their ancient kings, who

in his garb and present fortune is confounded with the

meanest of his vassals.p The name and situation of this

unhappy people might indicate their descent from one

common stock with the conquerors of Africa. But the

use of a Sclavonian dialect more clearly represents them

as the last remnant of the new colonies, who succeeded

to the genuine Vandals, already scattered or destroyed

in the age of Procopius.9

«nd"defatt If Belisarius had been tempted to hesitate in his afle-

Moots. giance, he might have urged, even against the empe-

a.d.535. ror himself, the indispensable duty of saving Africa

from an enemy more barbarous than the Vandals. The

origin of the Moors is involved in darkness; they were

ignorant of the use of letters/ Their limits cannot

be precisely denned: a boundless continent was open

to the Libyan shepherds; the change of seasons and

pastures regulated their motions; and their rude huts

and slender furniture were transported with the same

ease as their arms, their families, and their cattle, which

consisted of sheep, oxen, and camels.5 During the

vigour of the Roman power, they observed a respect­

ful distance from Carthage and the sea-shore; under

the feeble reign of the Vandals, they invaded the cities

of Numidia, occupied the sea-coast from Tangier to

r From the month of the great elector (in 1687), Tollios describes tho secret
roy­

alty and rebellious spirit of the Vandals of Brandenburgh, who could .muster
fire or

six thousand soldiers who had procured some cannon, &c. (Itinerar. Hungar. p.
42.

apud Dubos, Hist, de la Monarchic Fraucoise, tom. 1. p. 182,183.) The
veracity,

not of the elector, but of Tollius himself/ may justly be suspected.

4 Proeopius (lib. 1. c. 22.) was in total darkness—mtt fsrpfsv tic cuSe aiofsa
ec tfxs

enterat. Under the reign of Dagobert, (A. D. 630.) the Sclavonian tribes of
the

Sorhi and Venedi already bordered on Thuringia. (Mascou, Hist, of the Germans,
15.

3—5.)

* Sallust represents the Moors as a remnant of the army of Heracles (de Bell, Ju-  
gurth, c. 21.) and Proeopins, (Vandal, lib. 2. c. 10.) as the posterity of the
Cananaeans

who fled from the robber Joshua (*hjt>i;). He quotes two columns, with a
Phoeni­

cian-inscription. I believe in the columns—I doubt the inscription—and I
reject the

pedigree.

• Virgil (Georgic. 3. 339.) and Pomponius Mela, (1. 8.) describe the wandering

rife of the African shepherds, similar to that of the Arabs and Tartars; and
Shaw

(p. 222.) is the best commentator on the poet and the geographer.

