CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

fused a universal ardour; the Walamirs were multi­

plied by the Gothic swarms already engaged in the

service, or seated in the provinces, of the empire; and

each bold barbarian, who had heard of the wealth and

beauty of Italy, was impatient to seek, through the

most perilous adventures, the possession of such enchant­

ing objects. The march of Theodoric must be consi­

dered as the emigration of an entire people; the wives

and children of the Goths, their aged parents, and most

precious effects, were carefully transported; and some

idea may be formed of the heavy baggage that now fol­

lowed the camp, by the loss of two thousand waggons,

which had been sustained in a single action in the war

of Epirus. For their subsistence, the Goths depended

on the magazines of corn which was ground in portable

mills by the hands of their women; on the milk and flesh

of their flocks and herds; on the casual produce of the

chase, and upon the contributions which they might im­

pose on all who should presume to dispute the passage, or

to refuse their friendly assistance. Notwithstanding these

precautions, they were exposed to the danger, and almost

to the distress, of famine, in a march of seven hundred

miles, which had been undertaken in the depth of a

rigorous winter. Since the fall of the Roman power,

Dacia and Pannonia no longer exhibited the rich pros­

pect of populous cities, well-cultivated fields, and conve­

nient highways: the reign of barbarism and desolation

was restored, and the tribes of Bulgarians, Gepidas, and

Sarmatians, who had occupied the vacant province, were

prompted by their native fierceness, or the solicitations

of Odoacer, to resist the progress of his enemy. In

many obscure though bloody battles, Theodoric fought

and vanquished; till at length, surmounting every ob­

stacle by skilful conduct and persevering courage, he de­

scended from the Julian Alps, and displayed his invinci­

ble banners on the confines of Italy/

* Theodoric's march is supplied and illnstrated by Ennodios,(p. 1598—1602.)  
when the bomhast of Ike oration is translated into the language of cummon
sense.

VOLr V. C

