454 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

•Mw^f eas*'' *ne ProsPec*; of Europe is less pleasing and less

the ehagan glorious. By the departure of the Lombards, and the

Arars, ruin of the Gepida?, the balance of power was destroyed

^©oof&L on tne Danube; and the Avars spread their permanent

dominion from the foot of the Alps to the sea-coast of

the Euxine. The reign of Baian is the brightest era of

their monarchy; their chagan, who occupied the rustic

palace of Attila, appears to have imitated his character

and policy ;z but as the same scenes were repeated in a

smaller circle, a minute representation of the copy would

be devoid of the greatness and novelty of the original.

The pride of the second Justin, of Tiberius, and Mau­

rice, was humbled by a proud barbarian, more prompt to

inflict, than exposed to suffer the injuries of war; and as

often as Asia was threatened by the Persian arms, Eu­

rope was oppressed by the dangerous inroads, or costly

friendship of the Avars. When the Roman envoys ap­

proached the presence of the chagan, they were com<.

manded to wait at the door of his tent, till, at the end

perhaps of ten or twelve days, he condescended to admit

them. If the substance or the style of their message was

offensive to his ear, he insulted, with a real or affected

fury, their own dignity, and that of their prince; their

baggage was plundered, and their lives were only saved

by the promise of a richer present and a more respectful

address. But his sacred ambassadors enjoyed and abused

an unbounded licence in the midst of Constantinople:

they urged, with importunate clamours, the increase of

tribute, or the restitution of captives and deserters; and

the majesty of the empire was almost equally degraded

by a base compliance, or by the false and fearful excuses*

with which they eluded such insolent demands. The

* A general idea of the pride and power of the chagan may be taken from Menan -  
der (Excerpt. Legat. p. 117, &c') and Theopbylact, (lib. 1. c. 3. lib. 7. c.
15.) whose

eight books are much more honourable to the Avar than to the Roman prince. The

predecessors of Baian had tasted the liberality of Rome, and he survived the
reign,

of Maurice. (Bua, Hist. des Peuples Barbares, tom. 11. p. 545.) The chagan who

invaded Italy A. D, 611. (Muratori, Annali, tom. 5. p. 305.) was then juvenili
aetata

florentcm, (Paul Warnefrid, de Gest. Langohard, lib. 5. 0. 38.) the son,
perhaps, or

the grandson of Baian.

