CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE EOMAN EMPIRE.

eight thousandof a smaller size;" and the royal stables were

filled with six thousand mules and horses, among whom

the names of Shebdiz and Barid are renowned for their

Speed or beauty. Six thousand guards successively mount­

ed before the palace-gate; the service of the interior

apartments was performed by twelve thousand slaves,

and in the number of three thousand virgins, the fairest

of Asia, some happy concubine might console her mas­

ter for the age or the indifference of Sira. The various

treasures of gold, silver, gems, silk, and aromatics, were

deposited in a hundred subterraneous vaults; and the

chamber Badaverd denoted the accidental gift of the

winds which had wafted the spoils of Heraclius into one of

the Syrian harbours of his rival. The voice of flattery, and

perhaps of fiction, is not ashamed to compute the thirty

thousand rich hangings that adorned the walls, the forty

thousand columns of silver, or more probably of marble,

and plated wood, that supported the roof; and a thou­

sand globes of gold suspended in the dome, to imitate the

motions of the planets and the constellations of the zo­

diac." While the Persian monarch contemplated the

wonders of his art and power, he received an epistle from

an obscure citizen of Mecca, inviting him to acknow­

ledge Mahomet as the apostle of God. He rejected the

invitation, and tore the epistle. "It is thus (exclaimed

the Arabian prophet) that God will tear the kingdom,

and reject the supplications, of Chosroes."y Placed on

• The difference between the two races consists in one or two humps; the
drome­

dary has only one; the size of the proper camel is larger; the oonntry he
comes

from, Turkestan or Bactriana; the dromedary is confined to Arahia and Africa.

Buffon, Hist. Naturelle, tom. 11. p. 211, &c. Aristot. Hist. Animal, tom. 1.
lib. 2.

c. 1. tom. 2. p. 185.

x Theophanes, Chronograph, p. 268. D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientale, p.

997. The Greeks describe the decay, the Persians the splendour, of Dastagerd y

but the former speak from the modest wituess of the eye, the latter from the
vague

report of the ear.

y The historians of Mahomet, Abulfeda, (in Vit. Mohammed, p. 92, 93.) and Gag-

nier, (Vie de Mahomet, tom. 2. p. 247.) date this emhassy in the seventh year
of the

Hegira, which commences A. D. 628, May 11. Their chronology is erroneous,
sinoe

Chosroes died in the month of February of the same year. (Pagi, Critica, tom.
2.

p.779.) The count de Boulaiuvilliers (Vie de Mahumed, p. 327, 328.) places
this

emhassy about A. D. 615, soon after the conquest of Palestine. Yet Mahomet
would

scarcely hare ventured so soon on so bold a step.

