DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL III.

but the favourite eunuch still enjoyed the confidence of

Justinian, or the leader of a victorious army awed and

repressed the ingratitude of a timid court. Yet it was

not by weak and mischievous indulgence that Narses

secured the attachment of his troops. Forgetful of the

past, and regardless of the future, they abused the pre­

sent hour of prosperity and peace. The cities of Italy

resounded with the noise of drinking and dancing: the

spoils of victory were wasted in sensual pleasures; and

nothing (says Agathias) remained, unless to exchange

their shields and helmets for the soft lute and the capa­

cious hogshead.'1 In a manly oration, not unworthy of

a Roman censor, the eunuch reproved these disorderly

vices, which sullied their fame and endangered their

safety. The soldiers blushed and obeyed: discipline was

confirmed, the fortifications were restored; a duke was

stationed for the defence and military command of each

of the principal citiesand the eye of Narses pervaded

the ample prospect from Calabria to the Alps. The re­

mains of the Gothic nation evacuated the country, or

mingled with the people: the Franks, instead of re­

venging the death of Buccelin, abandoned, without a

struggle, their Italian conquests: and the rebellious

Sindbal, chief of the Heruli, was subdued, taken, and

hung on a lofty gallows by the inflexible justice of the

exarch.k The civil state of Italy, after the agitation of

a long tempest, was fixed by a pragmatic faction, which

the emperor promulgated at the request of the pope.

Justinian introduced his own jurisprudence into the

schools and tribunals of the west: he ratified the acts of

EXiwsto yap ot.uat, auroi* Lira aCeXTEfia; rac aa-mXtt; tu%ov km to- xpavn
ajw<f)ogEa)<

oivsv kcu Cag€cTW aTrcSw&at. (Agathias, lib. 2. p. 48.) In the first scene of
Richard

III. our English poet has beautifully enlarged on this idea, for which,
however, he

was not indebted to the Byzantine historian. ... J

'Maffei has proved (Verona Illustrata, p. 1. lib. 10. p. 257—289.) against the

common opinion, that the dukes of Italy were instituted before iht conquest of
the

Lombards by Narses himself. In the Piaginatic Sanction (no. 23.) Justinian re­

strains the judices militare*.

k See Paulus Diaconus, lib. 3. c2. p. 776. Mennnder (in Excerpt. Lcgat. p.
135.)

mentious some risings in Italy by the Franks, and Theophanes (p. 201) hints at
some

Gothic rebellions. ■' , . , . . .a

