CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 17

summer and winter solstice during an equal period of

forty days.' The long night of his absence or death

was the mournful season of distress and anxiety, till the

messengers who had been sent to the mountain-tops,

descried the first rays of returning light, and proclaimed

to the plain below the festival of his resurrection."

The life of Theodoric represents the rare and merito- His deicn-

rious example of a barbarian, who sheathed his sword in

the pride of victory and the vigour of his age. A reign

of three-and-thirty years was consecrated to the duties of

civil government, and the hostilities in which he was

sometimes involved, were speedily terminated by the con­

duct of his lieutenants, the discipline of his troops, the

arms of his allies, and even by the terror of his name.'

He reduced, under a strong and regular government,

the unprofitable countries of Rhastia, Noricum, Dalma-

tia, and Pannonia, from the source of the Danube and

the territory of the Bavarians/ to the petty kingdom

erected by the Gepidae on the ruins of Sirmium. His

prudence could not safely intrust the bulwark of Italy

to such feeble and turbulent neighbours; and his justice

might claim the lands which they oppressed, either as a

part of his kingdom, or as the inheritance of his father.

The greatness of a servant, who was named perfidious

because he was successful, awakened the jealousy of the

emperor Anastasius; and a war was kindled on the Da-

cian frontier, by the protection which the Gothic king,

I In the system or romance of M. Bailly, (Lettres sur les Sciences et sar
l'Atlantide,

tom 1. p. 249—356. tom. 2. p. 114—139.) the phoenix of the Edda, and the
annual

death and revival of Adonis and Osiris, are the allegorical'symbols of the
absence

and return of the sun in the arctic regions. The ingenious writer is a wortby
dis­

ciple of the great Buffon : nor is it easy for the coldest reason to withstand
the

magic of their philosopby.

« Aut>i ts ©yXirai; fi jotsj'tfl'rii tot Eograjv wn, says Procopius. At
present a rndo

Manicheism (generons enough) prevails among the Samoyedes in Greenland and in

Lapland; (Hist. des Voyages, tom. 18. p. 508,509. tom. 19. p. 105,106.
527,528.)

yet, according to Grotius, Samojutae coelum atque astra adoraHt, numina baud
aliis

iniquiora (de Rebus Belgicis, lib. 4. p. 338. folio edition) : a sentence
which Tacitius

would not have disowned. ■

x See the Hist, des Peoples Anoiens, &c. tom. 9. p. 255—273. 396—501. The.

count de-Buat was French minister at the court of Bavaria: a liberal curiosity
prompt­

ed his inquiries into the antiquities of the country, and that curiosity was
the ge; »i

of twelve respectable volumes.

