DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

Etruscans3 and Greeks :h in the mad abuse of prosperity

and power, every pleasure that is innocent was deemed

insipid; and the Scatinian law,' which had been extorted

by an act of violence, was insensibly abolished by the lapse

of time and the multitude of criminals. By this law, the

rape, perhaps the seduction, of an ingenious youth, was

compensated, as a personal injury, by the poor damages

of ten thousand sesterces, or fourscore pounds; the ra-

visher might be slain by the resistance or revenge of chas­

tity; and I wish to believe, that at Rome, as in Athens,

the voluntary and effeminate deserter of his sex was de­

graded from the honours and the rights of a citizen.k But

the practice of vice was not discouraged by the severity

of opinion: the indelible stain of manhood was confound­

ed with the more venial transgressions of fornication and

adultery, nor was the licentious lover exposed to the same

dishonour which he impressed on the male or female

partner of his guilt. From Catullus to Juvenal,1 the

poets accuse and celebrate the degeneracy of the times,

and the reformation of manners was feebly attempted by

the reason and authority of the civilians, till the most

virtuous of the Caesars proscribed the sin against nature

as a crime against society.1"

t Times (lib. 1.) and Theopompos (lib. 43. apod Athenaeum, lib. 12. p. 517.)
de­

scribe the luxury and last of the Etruscans : woXu fxtv roi yi yjuftvei
a-uvmnts tw; tw-

trt xat rut /uiigoxiu;. About the same period, (A. U. C. 445.) the Roman youth
stu­

died in Etruria. (Lib. 9. 36.)

* The Persians had been corrupted in the same sohool : air' EXXnrav fxistmrtt ira.t-  
ci jxirymai. (Herodot. lib. 1. c. 135.) A curious dissertation might be formed
on

the introduction of paederasty after the time of Homer, its progress among the
Greeks

of Asia and Europe, the vehemence of their passions, and the thin device of
virtue and'

friendship which amused the philosophers of Athens. But, scelera ostendi
oportet

dum puniuntur, abscoudi flagitia.

1 The name, the date, and the provisions of this law, are equally doubtful.
(Gra-

vina, Opp. p. 432.433. Heineccius, Hist. Jur. Rom. no. 108. Ernesti, Clav.
Cice-

ron. in Indice Legum.) But I will observe that the nefanda Venus of the honest

German is styled aversa by the more polite Italian.

• See the Oration of yEschines against the catamite Timarchus. (in Reiske,
Ora­

tor. Grace, tom. 3. p. 21—184.)

1 A crowd of disgraceful passages will force themselves on the memory of the -

classic reader: I will only remind him of the cool declaration of Ovid.— -

Odi concuhitas qui non utrumque resolvunt.

Hoc est quod poerum tangar amore minus.

m /Elins, Lampridias, in Vit. Heliogahal. in Hist. August, p. 112. Aurelins
Vic­

tor, in Philippo, Codex Theodos. lib. 9. tit. 7. leg. 7. and Godefroy's
Commentary,

toiu. 3. p. 63. Theodosius abolished the subterraneous brothels of Rome, in
which

the prostitution of both sexes was aoled with impunity.

