446 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVf.

to choose whether they would pass the river themselves,

or allow a free passage to the arms of the great king.

The lieutenant of the emperor Maurice preferred the

safer alternative, and this local circumstance, which

would have enhanced the victory of the Persians, render­

ed their defeat more bloody, and their escape more diffi­

cult. But the loss of his subjects, and the danger of his

kingdom, were overbalanced in the mind of Hormouzby

the disgrace of his personal enemy; and no sooner had

Bahram collected and reviewed his forces, than he re­

ceived from a royal messenger the insulting gift of a dis­

taff, a spinning-wheel, and a complete suit of female ap­

parel. Obedient to the will of his sovereign, he shewed

himself to the soldiers in this unworthy disguise: they

resented his ignominy and their own; a shout of rebel­

lion ran through the ranks, and the general accepted

His rebel- their oaths of fidelity and vows of revenge. A second

lon" messenger, who had been commanded to bring the re­

bel in chains, was trampled under the feet of an elephant,

and manifestos were diligently circulated, exhorting the

Persians to assert their freedom against an odious and

contemptible tyrant. The defection was rapid and uni­

versal: his loyal slaves were sacrificed to the public fury;

the troops deserted to the standard of Bahram; and the

provinces again saluted the deliverer of his country.

Hormoni As the passes were faithfully guarded, Hormouz could

•ndtapri- oruy compute the number of his enemies by the testi-

•oned. rnony of a guilty conscience, and the daily defection of

those who, in the hour of his distress, avenged their

wrongs, or forgot their obligations. He proudly display­

ed the ensigns of royalty; but the city and palace of

Modain had already escaped from the hand of the ty­

rant. Among the victims of his cruelty, Bindoes, a Sas-

Sanian prince, had been cast into a dungeon: his fetters

Were broken by the zeal and courage of a brother; and

he stood before the king at the head of those trusty

guards who had been chosen as the ministers of his con­

