132 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.>

No sooner was Belisarius informed of their arrival, than

he dispatched orders that the greatest part of the mari­

ners should be immediately landed to join the triumph,

and to swell the apparent numbers of the Romans.

Before he allowed them to enter the gates of Carthage,

he exhorted them, in a discourse worthy of himself and-

the occasion, not to disgrace the glory of their arms;

and to remember, that the Vandals had been the tyrants,-

but that they were the deliverers of the Africans, who

must now be respected as the voluntary and affectionate,

subjects of their common sovereign. The Romans

marched through the streets in close ranks, prepared for

battle if an enemy had appeared; the strict order main­

tained by the general, imprinted on their minds the duty

of obedience; and in an age in which custom and impu­

nity almost sanctified the abuse of conquest, the genius-

of one man repressed the passions of a victorious army.

The voice of menace and complaint was silent; the

trade of Carthage was not interrupted; while Africa

changed her master and her government, the shops con­

tinued open and busy; and the soldiers, after sufficient

guards had been posted, modestly departed to the houses

which were allotted for their reception. Belisarius fixed

his residence in the palace; seated himself on the throne

of Genseric; accepted and distributed the barbaric spoil;

granted their lives to the suppliant Vandals; and labour­

ed to repair the damage which the suburb of Mandracium

had sustained in the preceding night. At supper he

entertained his* principal officers with the form and

magnificence of a royal banquet." The victor was re­

spectfully served by the captive officers of the house-

almnst as much as the works of man. The isthmus, or neck, of the city, is now
con­

founded with the continent; the harbour is a dry plain; and the lake, or
stagnntn,

no more than a morass, with six or seven feet water in the inid-channel. See
d'An-

ville, (Geographie Ancienne, torn. 3. p. 82.) Shaw, (Travels, p. 77—84.) Mar-

mol. (Description de l'Afrique, torn. 2. p. 465.) and Thuanus, (58. 12. torn.
3.

p. 334.)

"From Delphi, the name of Delphicum was given, both in Greek and Latin, to a.

tripod: mid, by an easy analogy, the same appellation was extended at Rome,
Con­

stantinople, and Carthage, to the royal banqueltingroom. (Procopius, Vandal,
lib. X,

c 21. Ducange, Gloss. Gr&c p. 277. Wtaiv, ad Alexiad. p. 412.) .

