CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 467

traced the steps of a revolution so pleasing, in Gregory's

opinion, both to heaven and earth ; and Phocas does not

appear less hateful in the exercise than in the acquisition

of power. The pencil of an impartial historian has de- Hiscba-

lineated the portrait of a monster ;c his diminutive andrac r'

deformed person, the closeness of his shaggy eye-brows,

his red hair, his beardless chin, and his cheek, disfigured

and discoloured by a formidable scar. Ignorant of let­

ters, of laws, and even of arms, he indulged in the su­

preme rank a more ample privilege of lust and drunken­

ness, and his brutal pleasures were either injurious to his

subjects or disgraceful to himself. Without assuming

the office of a prince, he renounced the profession of a

soldier; and the reign of Phocas afflicted Europe with

ignominious peace, and Asia with desolating war. His

savage temper was inflamed by passion, hardened by fear,

exasperated by resistance or reproach. The flight- of

Theodosius to the Persian court had been intercepted by

a rapid pursuit, Or a deceitful message: he was beheaded

at Nice, and the last hours of the young prince were

soothed by the comforts of religion and the conscious­

ness of innocence. Yet his phantom disturbed the re­

pose of the usurper: a whisper was circulated through

the east, that the son of Maurice was still alive: the

people expected their avenger, and the widow and daugh­

ters of the late emperor would have adopted as their son

and brother the vilest of mankind. In the massacre of

the imperial family/ the mercy, or rather the discretion,

of Phocas, had spared these unhappy females, and they

fastigiam perpenisse gaudemus. Ltetentur coeli et exultet terra, et de vestris
benig-

nia actibus universal reipublica? populas nunc usqae rehementsr afflictus
bilarescat,

&o. This base flattery, the topic of Protestant invectire, is justly censured
by the

philosopher Bayle. (Dictionaire Critiqoe, Gregoire I. not. H. torn. 2. p. 597,
598.)

Cardinal Baronius justifies the pope at the expense of the fallen emperor.

c The images of Phocas were destroyed; bat even the malioe of bia enemies

would suffer one copy of sach a portrait or caricatare (Cedrenus, p. 404.) to
escape

the flames.

4 The family of Maurice is represented by Ducange : (Famiiias Byzaotinae, p.
106

—108.) his eldest son Theodosius had been crowned emperor when he was no more
<

than four years and a half old, and he is always joined with bis father in the
salu­

tations of Gregory. With the Christian daughters, Auastasia and Theocteste, I
am

surprised to find the Pagan name of Cleopatra.

