56 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

and the struggle of the green and blue was supposed to

represent the conflict of the earth and sea. Their re­

spective victories announced either a plentiful harvest or

a prosperous navigation, and the hostility of the husband­

men and mariners was somewhat less absurd than the

blind ardour of the Roman people, who devoted their

lives and fortunes to the colour which they had espoused.

Such folly was disdained and indulged by the wisest

princes; but the names of Caligula, Nero, Vitellius, Ve-

rus, Commodus, Caracalla, and Elagabalus, were enrolled

at Rome, in the blue or green factions of the circus: they frequent­

ed their stables, applauded their favourites, chastised their

antagonists, and deserved the esteem of the populace, by

the natural or affected imitation of their manners. The

bloody and tumultuous contest continued to disturb the

public festivity, till the last age of the spectacles of Rome;

and Theodoric, from a motive of justice or affection, in­

terposed his authority to protect the greens against the

•violence of a consul and a patrician, who were passion­

ately addicted to the blue faction of the circus."

They Ms- Constantinople adopted the follies, though not the

staiitioopio virtues, of ancient Rome; and the same factions which

e»st.the had agitated the circus, raged with redoubled fury in the

hippodrome. Under the reign of Anastasius, this po­

pular frenzy was inflamed by religious zeal; and the

greens, who had treacherously concealed stones and dag­

gers under baskets of fruit, massacred, at a solemn fes­

tival, three thousand of their blue adversaries/ From

the capital this pestilence was diffused into the provinces

and cities of the east, and the sportive distinction of two

colours produced two strong and irreconcilable factions,

which shook the foundations of a feeble government/

u SeeOnupliriusPanviniusde LudisCircensibus, lib.I.e. 10,11. the seventeenth

Annotation on Mascou's History of the Germans, and Aleman. ad. c. 7.

x Marcellin. in Chron. p. 47. Instead of the vulgar word veneta, he dses the
more

equisite terras of cctrulea and ccerealis. Baron ins, (A. D. 501. no. 4—6.) is
satisfied

that the blues were orthodox; but Tillemont is angry at the supposition, and
will

not allow any martyrs in a playhouse. (Hist, des Emp. torn. 6. p. 554.)

y See Procopins, Persic, lib. 1. c. 24. In describing the vices of the
factions and

of the government, the public is not more favourable than the secret histoi
ian. Aleniaii.

