DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

rian provinces."1 The plains of the lower Hungary were1

covered with the Avar horse, and a fleet of large boats

was built in the Hyrcinian wood, to descend the Danube,

and to transport into the Save the materials of a bridge.

But as the strong garrison of Singidunum, which com­

manded the conflux of the two rivers, might have stop­

ped their passage and baffled his designs, he dispelled

their apprehensions by a solemn oath, that his views

were not hostile to the empire. He swore by his sword,

the symbol of the god of war, that he did not, as the ene­

my of Rome, construct a bridge upon the Save. "If I

violate my oath (pursued the intrepid Baian), may I my­

self, and the last of my nation, perish by the sword? may

the heavens and fire, the deity of the heavens, fall upon

our heads! may the forests and mountains bury us in

their ruins! and the Save returning, against the laws of

nature, to his source, overwhelm us in his angry waters!"

After this barbarous imprecation, he calmly inquired,

what oath was most sacred and venerable among the

Christians, what guilt of perjury it was most dangerous

to incur. The bishop of Singidunum presented the gos­

pel, which the chagan received with devout reverence.

"I swear (said he) by the God who has spoken in this

holy book, that I have neither falsehood on my tongue,

nor treachery in my heart." As soon as he rose from

his knees, he accelerated the labour of the bridge, and

dispatched an envoy to proclaim what he no longer wished

to conceal. "Inform the emperor (said the perfidious

Baian) that Sirmium is invested on every side. Advise

his prudence to withdraw the citizens and their effects,

and resign a city which it is now impossible to relieve or

defend." Without the hope of relief, the defence of

Sirmium was prolonged above three years; the walls

were still untouched; but famine was enclosed within

the walls, till a merciful capitulation allowed the escape

* Menander (in Excerpt. Legat. p. 126—132.174, 175.) describes the perjury of  
Baian and the surrender of Sirmium. We have lost his account of the siege,
which is

commended by Theopb jlact, lib. 1, c. 3. To )' oir»; Miraviv wtgifavei a-a^xq
Sibj-j»8vt»i.

