CHAP. XLlV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 36l

The freedom of love and marriage was restrained I"^8con*

among the Romans by natural and civil impediments, and bas-

An instinct, almost innate and universal, appears to pro- Ur *'

hibit the incestuous commerce1 of parents and children

in the infinite series of ascending and descending gene­

rations. Concerning the oblique and collateral branches,

nature is indifferent, reason mute, and custom various

and arbitrary. In Egypt, the marriage of brothers and

sisters was admitted without scruple or exception: a

Spartan might espouse the daughter of his father; an

Athenian that of his mother; and the nuptials of an un­

cle with his niece were applauded at Athens as a happy

union of the dearest relations. The profane lawgivers

of Rome were never tempted by interest or superstition

to multiply the forbidden degrees: but they inflexibly

condemned the marriage of sisters and brothers, hesi­

tated whether first cousins should be touched by the

same interdict; revered the parental character of aunts

and uncles, and treated affinity and adoption as a just

imitation of the ties of blood. According to the' proud

maxims of the republic, a legal marriage could only be

contracted by free citizens; an honourable, at least an

ingenuous, birth was required for the spouse of a sena­

tor: but the blood of kings could never mingle in legi­

timate nuptials with the blood of a Roman; and the

name of Stranger degraded Cleopatra and Berenice,5 to

live the concubines of Mark Antony and Titus.' This

appellation, indeed, so injurious to the majesty, cannot

without indulgence be applied to the manners, of these

■ The principles of the Roman jurisprudence are exposed by Justinian,
(Institut.

lib. 1. tit. 10.) and the laws and manners of tile different nations of
antiquity con­

cerning forbidden degrees, &e. are copiously explained by Dr. Taylor in his
Ele­

ments of Civil Law, (p. 108. 314—339.) a work of amusing, though various,
reading;

but which cannot be praised for philosophical precision.

• When her father Agrippa died, (A. D. 44.) Berenice was sixteen years of age.

(Joseph, torn. 1. Anfiquit. judaic, lib. 19. c. 9. p. 952. edit. Havercamp;)
She

was therefore above fifty years old when Titus (A. D. 79.) invitus invitara
in-

visit. This date would not have adorned the tragedy ur pastoral of the tender

Racine. ■ . *

• The .ffigyptiaconjunx of Virgil (iEneid.8.688.)seemsto be numbered among Hie

monsters who warred with Mark Antony against Augustus, Hie senate, and the
gods

of Italy.

VOL. V. 1 B

