CHAP. XLYI-] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

rice.' The iron of Tuscany or Pontus still received the

'keenest temper from the skill of the Byzantine workmen.

The magazines were plentifully stored with every species

of offensive and defensive arms. In the construction and

use of ships, engines, and fortifications, the barbarians

admired the superior ingenuity of a people whom they

so often vanquished in the field. The science of tactics,

the order, evolutions, arid stratagems, of antiquity, was

transcribed and studied in the books of the Greeks and

Romans. But the solitude or degeneracy of the pro­

vinces could no longer supply a race of men to handle

those weapons, to guard those walls, to navigate those

ships, and to reduce the theory of war into bold and suc­

cessful practice. The genius of Belisarius and Narses had

been formed without a master, and expired without a dis­

ciple. Neither honour, nor patriotism, nor generous su­

perstition, could animate the lifeless bodies of slaves and

strangers, who had succeeded to the honours of the le­

gions: it was in the camp alone that the emperor should

have exercised a despotic command; it was only in the

camps that his authority was disobeyed and insulted: he

appeased and inflamed with gold the licentiousness of the

troops; but their vices were inherent, their victories were

accidental, and their costly maintenance exhausted the

substance of a state which they were unable to defend.

After a long and pernicious indulgence, the cure of this

inveterate evil was undertaken by Maurice; but the rash

attempt, which drew destruction on his own head, tend­

ed only to aggravate the disease. A reformer should be

exempt from the suspicion of interest, and he must

possess the confidence and esteem of those whom he pro­

poses to reclaim. The troops of Maurice might listen

to the voice,of a victorious leader; they disdained the

admonitions of statesmen and sophists, and when they

'Maurice himself oomposed twelve books on the militaryart, which are still ex­

tant, and have been published (Upsal, 1664.) by John Scheffer at the end of
the Tactics

of Arrian, (F;ibricius, Bibllot. Gracca, lib. 4. c. 8. tom. 3. p. 278.) who
promises to

speak more fully of his work in its proper place. ,

