CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 173

unsuccessful. These partial advantages diffused an impa­

tient ardour among the soldiers and people, who began

to feel the hardships of a siege, and to disregard the

dangers of a general engagement. Each plebeian con­

ceived himself to be a hero, and the infantry, who/

since the decay of discipline, were rejected from the line:

of battle, aspired to the ancient honours of the Roman

legion. Belisarius praised the spirit of his troops, con­

demned their presumption, yielded to their clamours,'

and prepared the remedies of a defeat, the possibility of

which he alone had courage to suspect. In the quarter

of the Vatican, the Romans prevailed; and if the irrepa­

rable moments had not been wasted in the pillage of the

camp, they might have occupied the Milviah bridge,

and charged in the rear of the Gothic host. On the

other side of the Tiber, Belisarius advanced from the

Pincian and Salarian gates. But his army, four thousand

soldiers perhaps, was lost in a specious plain; they were

encompassed and oppressed by fresh multitudes, who

continually relieved the broken ranks of the barbarians.

The valiant leaders of the infantry were unskilled to con­

quer: they died: the retreat (a hasty retreat) was co­

vered by the prudence of the general, and the victors

started back with affright from the formidable aspect of

an armed rampart. The reputation of Belisarius was

unsullied by a defeat; and the vain confidence of the

Goths was not less serviceable to his designs than the

repentance and modesty of the Roman troops. '«"

From the moment that Belisarius had determined to Distress of

sustain a siege, his assiduous care provided Rome against1 *Ctt)'

the danger of famine, more dreadful than the Gothic

arms. An extraordinary supply of corn was imported

from Sicily: the harvests of Campania and Tuscany

were forcibly swept for the use of the city: and the

mana. (Opp. tom. 3. lib, 4. Dialog. 10. p. 195—129.) A mode of distinguishing

the charge by the horse-trumpet of solid brass, and the retreat by the foot-
ttiimpet of

leather and light wood, was recommended by Prueopius, and adopted by
Belisarius.

VGoth. lib.'J. e. ii3.) '•

