CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the well-known plenty of Egypt; the same country, a

small and populous tract, was still capable of exporting,

each year, two hundred and sixty thousand quarters of

wheat for the use of Constantinople ;k and the capital of

Justinian was supplied with the manufactures of Sidon,

fifteen centuries after they had been celebrated in the

poems of Homer.1 The annual powers of vegetation,

instead of being exhausted by two thousand harvests,

were renewed and invigorated by skilful husbandry, rich

manure, and seasonable repose. The breed of domestic

animals was infinitely multiplied. Plantations, buildings,

and the instruments of labour and luxury, which are more

durable than the term of human life, were accumulated

by the care of successive generations. Tradition pre­

served, and experience simplified, the humble practice of

the arts; society was enriched by the division of labour

and the facility of exchange; and every Roman was

lodged, clothed, and subsisted, by the industry of a thou­

sand hands. The invention of the loom and distaff has

been piously ascribed to the gods. In every age, a va­

riety of animal and vegetable productions, hair, skins,

wool, flax, cotton, and at length silk, have been skilfully

manufactured to hide or adorn the human body; they

were stained with an infusion of permanent colours; and

the pencil was successfully employed to improve the

labours of the loom. In the choice of those colours,"'

which imitate the beauties of nature, the freedom of

taste and fashion was indulged; but the deep purple,"

1 Eight millions of Roman modii, besides a contribution of eighty thousand
aura

for the expenses of water-carriage, from which the subject was graciously
excused.

See the thirteenth edict. of Justinian: the numbers are checked and verified
by the

agreement of the Greek and Latin texts.

1 Homer's Iliad, 6. 289. These veils, irfTTXoi TraplroiiuXoi, were the work of
the

Sidonian women. But this passage is more honourable to the manufactures than
to

the navigation of Phoenicia, from whence they had been imported to Troy in
Phrygian

bottoms.

m See in Ovid (de Arte Amandi, .". 269, &c.) a poetical list of twelve colours

borrowed from flowers, the elements, &c. But it is almost impossible to
discrimi­

nate by words all the nice and various shades both of art and nature.

° By the discovery of cochineat, &c. we far surpass the colours of antiquity.

Their royal purple had a strong smell, and a dark cast as deep as bull's
blood.—Ob-

scuritas rubens (says Cassiodorius, Var. 1. 2.) nigredo sanguinea. The
president

Goguet (Origine des Loix et des Arts, part2. lib. 2. c. 2. p. 184—21 j.) will
amuss

