CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 341

merit of the execution. From the library of Tribonian,

they chose forty, the most eminent civilians of former

times :g two thousand treatises were comprised in an

abridgment of fifty-books; and it has been carefully re­

corded, that three millions of lines or sentences,11 were

reduced, in this abstract, to the moderate number of one

hundred and fifty-thousand. The edition of this great

work was delayed a month after that of the institutes;

and it seemed reasonable that the elements should pre­

cede the digest of the Roman law. As soon as the em­

peror had approved their labours, he ratified, by his le­

gislative power, the speculations of these private citizens:

their commentaries on the twelve tables, the perpetual

edict, the laws of the people, and the decrees of the se­

nate, succeeded to the authority of the text; and the

text was abandoned, as a useless, though venerable, re­

lic of antiquity. The Code, the Pandects, and the In­

stitutes, were declared to be the legitimate system of civil

jurisprudence; they alone were admitted in the tribunals,

and they alone were taught in the academies of Rome,

Constantinople, and Berytus. Justinian addressed to

the senate and provinces his eternal oracles; and his

pride, under the mask of piety, ascribed the consumma­

tion of this great design to the support and inspiration

of the Deity.

Since the emperor declined the fame and envy of ori- Praise and

. , . . . . iaii censure of

gmal composition, we can only require at his nanus, me- the Code

thod, choice, and fidelity, the humble, though indispens- an"

able, virtues of a compiler. Among the various combi­

nations of ideas, it is difficult to assign any reasonable

s Angelus Politianns (lib. 5. Epist. ult.) reckons thirty-seven (p. 192—200.)
civi­

lians quoted in the Pandects—a learned, and, for his times, an extraordinary
list.

The Greek Index to the Pandects enumerates thirty-nine; and forty are produced
by

the indefatigable Fabricius. (Bibliot. Graec. tom. 3. p. 488—502.) Antoninus
Au­

gustus (de Nominibus Propriis; Pandect, apud Lndewig, p. 283.) is said to have

added fifty-four names; but they must be vague or second-hand references.

h The Zti^oi of the Ancient MSS. may be strictly defined as sentences or
periods

of a complete sense, which, on the breadth of the parchment rolls or volumes,
com­

posed as many lines of unequal length. The number of Tricot in eaeh book
served as

a check on the errors of the scribes. (Ludewig, p. 211—215. and his original
author

Suicer. Thesaur. Ecclesiast. tom. 1. p. 1021—1036.)

