144 DECLINE AND FALL fcHAP. XLI,

decline an honour too conspicuous for a subject: and

his magnanimity might justly disdain what had been so

often sullied by the vilest of tyrants. The glorious pro­

cession entered the gate of the hippodrome; was saluted

by the acclamations of the senate and people; and halted

before the throne where Justinian and Theodora were

seated to receive the homage of the captive monarch

and the victorious hero. They both performed the cus­

tomary adoration; and, falling prostrate on the ground,

respectfully touched the footstool of a prince who had

not unsheathed his sword, and of a prostitute who had

danced on the theatre: some gentle violence was used to

bend the stubborn spirit of the grandson of Genseric;

and, however trained to servitude, the genius of Belisa-

His »oie rius must have secretly rebelled. He was immediately

aTd. ass,' declared consul for the ensuing year, and the day of his

January i. inaUgUration resembled the pomp of a second triumph:

his curule chair was borne aloft on the shoulders of cap­

tive Vandals; and the spoils of war, gold cups, and rich

girdles, were profusely scattered among the populace.

Hmei°ande" ^ut tne Puresfc reward of Belisarius was in the faithful

iiie van- execution of a treaty, for which his honour had been

pledged to the king of the Vandals. The religious scru­

ples of Gelimer, who adhered to the Arian heresy, were

incompatible with the dignity of senator or patrician:

but he received from the emperor an ample estate in the

province of Galatia, where the abdicated monarch retired

with his family and friends, to a life of peace, of affluence,

and perhaps of content.1 The daughters of Hilderic

were entertained with the respectful tenderness due to

their age and misfortune; and Justinian and Theodora

accepted the honour of educating and enriching the fe­

male descendants of the great Theodosius. The bravest

of the Vandal youth were distributed into five squadrons

1 In the Belisaire of Marmontel, the king and the conqueror of Africa meet,
sop,

and converse, without recollecting each other. It is surely a fault of that
romance,

that not only the hero, but all to whom he had been so conspicuously known,
appear

to have lost their eyes or their memory.

