CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of gold. A third pavilion was supported by columns of

gilt wood; a bed of pure and massy gold was raised on

four peacocks of the same metal; and before the entrance

of the tent, dishes, basins, and statues of solid silver, and

admirable art, were ostentatiously piled in waggons, the

monuments of valour rather than of industry. When

Disabul led his armies against the frontiers of Persia, his

Roman allies followed many days the march of the Turk­

ish camp, nor were they dismissed till they had enjoyed

their precedency over the envoy of the great king, whose

loud and intemperate clamours interrupted the silence of

the royal banquet. The power and ambition of Chos-

roes cemented the union of the Turks and Romans, who

touched his dominions on either side: but those distant

nations, regardless of each other, consulted the dictates

of interest, without recollecting the obligations of oaths

and treaties. While the successor of Disabul celebrated

his father's obsequies, he was saluted by the ambassadors

of the emperor Tiberius, who proposed an invasion of Per­

sia, and sustained with firmness, the angry, and perhaps

the just, reproaches of that haughty barbarian. "You

see my ten fingers (said the great khan, and he applied

them to his mouth). You Romans speak with as many

tongues, but they are tongues of deceit and perjury;

To me you hold one language, to my subjects another:

and the nations are successively deluded by your perfi­

dious eloquence. You precipitate your allies into war.

and danger, you enjoy their labours, and you neglect

your benefactors. Hasten your return, inform your

master that a Turk is incapable of uttering or forgiving

falsehood, and that he shall speedily meet the punish­

ment which he deserves. While he solicits my friend­

ship with flattering and hollow words, he is sunk to a

confederate of my fugitive Varchonites. If I condescend

to march against those contemptible slaves, they will

tremble at the sound of our whips; they will be tram­

pled, like a nest of ants, under the feet of my innum"-

q 2

