CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIIIE.

Justin had invested his nephew with the purple, the pa­

triarch of Constantinople placed the diadem on the

heads of the emperor and empress of the east. But the

usual honours which the severity of Roman manners had

allowed to the wives of princes, could not satisfy either the

ambition of Theodora or the fondness of Justinian. He

seated her on the throne as an equal and independent

colleague in the sovereignty of the empire, and an oath

of allegiance was imposed on the governors of the pro­

vinces in, the joint names of Justinian and Theodora/

The eastern world fell prostrate before the genius and

fortune of the daughter of Acacius. The prostitute

who, in ths presence of innumerable spectators had pol­

luted the theatre of Constantinople, was adored as a

queen in the same city, by grave magistrates, orthodox

bishops, victorious generals, and captive monarchist

Those who believe that the female mind is totally de­

praved by the loss of chastity, will eagerly listen to all the

invectives of private envy or popular resentment, which

have dissembled the virtues of Theodora, exaggerated

her vices, and condemned with rigour the venal or vo­

luntary sins of the youthful harlot. From a motive of

shame or contempt, she often declined the servile homage

of the multitude, escaped from the odious light of the

capital, and passed the greatest part of the year in the

palaces and gardens which were pleasantly seated on the

sea-coast of the Propontis and the Bosphorus. Her pri­

vate hours were devoted to the prudent as well as grate­

ful care of her beauty, the luxury of the bath and table,

and the long slumber of the evening and the morning.

Her secret apartments were occupied by the favourite

'I swear by the Father, &c. by Ihe Virgin Mary, by the four Gospels, quae in

•usibiM teneo, and by the holy archangels Michael and Gabriel, puram
conscieiitiam

prnianumque servitium meservaturum, sacratissiniis DDNN. Justinianoet
Theodorae

•nnjugi ejus, (novel. 8. tit. 3.) Would the oath have been hinding in favour
of the

widow J Communes tituli et triumph!, &c. (Alcman. p. 47, 48.)

S "Let greatuess own her, and she's mean no more," ficc.

Without Warburton's critical telescope, I should never have seen, in the
gcuuial

pictuie of triumphant vice, any personal allusion to Theodora.

