DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

forests of Germany and Poland, to pursue the emigra­

tions of the Heruli, a fierce people, who disdained the

use of armour, and who condemned their widows and

aged parents not to survive the loss of their husbands,

or the decay of their strength.0 The king of these savage

warriors solicited the friendship of Theodoric, and was

elevated to the rank of his son, according to the barba­

ric rites of a military adoption.13 From the shores of the

Baltic, the iEstians, or Livonians, laid their offerings of

native amberq at the feet of a prince, whose fame had ex­

cited them to undertake an unknown and dangerous jour­

ney of fifteen hundred miles. With the country7 from

whence the Gothic nation derived their origin, he main­

tained a frequent and friendly correspondence; the Italians

were clothed in the rich sables' of Sweden; and one of

its sovereigns, after a voluntary or reluctant abdication,

found a hospitable retreat in the palace of Ravenna.

He had reigned over one of the thirteen populous tribes

who cultivated a small portion of the great island or pe­

ninsula of Scandinavia, tp which the vague appellation of

Thule has been sometimes applied. That northern re­

gion was peopled, or had been explored, as high as the

sixty-eighth degree of latitude, where the natives of the

polar circle enjoy and lose the presence of the sun at each

(c. 58. p. 698, 699 ) and the Valesian Fragment, (p. 720,721.) Peace,
honourable

peace, was the constant aim of Theodoric.

'• The carious reader may contemplate the Heroli of Procopius, (Goth. lib. 2.

c. 14.) and the patient reader may plunge into the dark and minute researches
of

M. de Bual. (Hist, des Peoples Anciens, torn. 9. p. 348—396.)

P Variarum, 4. 2. The spirit and forms of this martial institution are noticed
by

Cassiodorius; but he seems to have only translated the sentiments of the
Gothic king

into the language of Roman eloquence.

i Cassiodorius, who quotes Tacitus to the iEstians, the unlettered savages of
the

Baltic, (Var. 5. 2.) describes the amber for which their shores have ever been
famous,

as the'gum of a tree, hardened by the sun, and purified and wafted by the
waves.

When that singular substance is analyzed by the chemists, it yields a
vegetable oil

and a mineral acid. ,

r Scanzia, or Thule, is described by Jornades (c. 3. p. 610—613.) and
Procopius.

(Goth. lib. 2. c. 15.) Neither the Goth nor the Greek had visited the country:
both

had conversed with the natives in their exile at Ravenna or Constantinople.

» Sapherinas pellet, la the time of Joruandes, they inhabited Snethaiis, the
proper

Sweden; bnt that beautiful race of animals has gradually been driven into the
eastern

parts of Siberia. See Buffon (Hist. Nat. torn. 13. p. 309—313. quarto
edition),

Pennant, (System of Quadrupeds, vol. 1. p. 322—328.) Giuelin, (Hist. Qen. des

Voyages, torn. 18. p. 257, 258.) and Levesque. (Hist, de Russie, torn. 5. p.
165,,

Kit). 514, 515.) _-■./..;•.

