DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL11.

measured, not so much by their real elevation, as by the

height to which they ascend above the level of their age

or country; and the same stature, which in a people of

giants would pass unnoticed, must appear conspicuous

in a race of pigmies. Leonidas, and his three hundred

companions, devoted their lives at Thermopylae ; but the

education of the infant, the boy, and the man, had pre­

pared, and almost ensured, this memorable sacrifice;

and each Spartan would approve, rather than admire, an

act of duty, of which himself and eight thousand of his

fellow-citizens were equally capable." The great Pom-

pey might inscribe on his trophies, that he had defeated

in battle two millions of enemies, and reduced fifteen

hundred cities from the lake Maeotis to the Red Sea;b

but the fortune of Rome flew before his eagles; the

nations were oppressed by their own fears, and the in­

vincible legions which he commanded, had been formed

by the habits of conquest and the discipline of ages. In

this view, the character of Belisarius may be deservedly

placed above the heroes of the ancient republics. His

imperfections flowed from the contagion of the times;

his virtues were his own, the free gift of nature or re­

flection; he raised himself without a master or a rival;

and so inadequate were the arms committed to his hand,

that his sole advantage was derived from the pride and

presumption of his adversaries. Under his command,

the subjects of Justinian often deserved to be called Ro­

mans: but the unwarlike appellation of Greeks was im­

posed as a term of reproach by the haughty Goths;

who affected to blush, that they might dispute the king­

dom of Italy with a nation of tragedians, pantomimes,

and pirates." The climate of Asia has indeed been found

s It will be a pleasure, not a task, to read Herodotus, (lib. 7. c. 104.134.
p.

550. 615.) The conversation of Xerxes and Demaratus at Thermopylae, is one of

the most interesting and moral scenes in history. It was the torture of the
royal

Spartan to behold, with anguish and remorse, the virtue of his country.

b See this proud inscription in Pliny. (Hist. Natur. 7. 27.) Few men have more

exquisitely tasted of glory and disgrace: nor could Juvenal (Satir. 10.)
produce

a more striking example of the vicissitudes of fortune, and the vanity of
human

wishes.

c r^aiKovs , . . , i£ in ra ia-(5orEpa ouSie* e; iraXiav ijxovra tiSov, ori
f*ii rpayuiovs, Mt

