362 'DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

Oriental queens. A concubine, in the strict sense of the

civilians, was a woman of servile or plebeian extraction,

the sole and faithful companion of a Roman citizen, who

continued in a state of celibacy. Her modest station

below the honours of a wife, above the infamy of a pros­

titute, was acknowledged and approved by the laws:

from the age of Augustus to the tenth century, the use

of this secondary marriage prevailed both in the west

and east, and the humble virtues of a concubine were

often preferred to the pomp and insolence of a noble

matron. In this connexion, the two Antonines, the

best of princes and of men, enjoyed the comforts of do­

mestic love; the example was imitated by many citizens

impatient of celibacy, but regardful of their families. If

at any time they desired to legitimate their natural chil­

dren, the conversion was instantly performed by the cele­

bration of their nuptials with a partner whose fruitfulness

and fidelity they had already tried. By this epithet of natu­

ral, the offspring of the concubine were distinguishedfrom

the spurious blood of adultery, prostitution, and incest, to

whom Justinian reluctantly grants the necessary aliments

of life; and these natural children alone were capable of

succeeding to a^ixth part of the inheritance of their re­

puted father. According to the rigour of law, bastards

were entitled only to the name and condition of their

mother, from whom they might derive the character of

a slave, a stranger, or a citizen. The outcasts of every

family were adopted without reproach as the children of

the state."

Guardians The relation of guardian and ward, or, in Roman

and wards. wor(jg> of iuior and pupil, which covers so many titles of

the Institutes and Pandects/ is of a very simple and uni-

» Thte hnmble hat legal rights of concuhines and natural children, are stated
in the

Institutes, (lib. 1. tit. 10.)' the Pandects, (lib. 1. tit. 7.) the Code,
(lib. 5. tit. 25.)

and the Novels, (lib.'74. 89.) The researches of Hei Decems and Giannone (ail
Le­

gem Juliam et Papiam-Poppneam, c.4. p, 164—175.0pere PostHume,p. 108—158.)

illustrate this interesting and domcstio subject.

"See the article of guardians and wards in the Institutes, (lib. 1. tit.
13—26.) the

Pandects, (lib. 26, 27.) and the Code, (lib. 5. tit. 28—70.)

