CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

artifice with which he reduced the size, without defacing

the figure, of the gold coin. Instead of expecting the

restoration of peace and industry, he imposed a heavy

assessment on the fortunes of the Italians. Yet his pre­

sent or future demands were less odious than a prosecu­

tion of arbitrary rigour against the persons and property

of all those, who, under the Gothic kings, had been con­

cerned in the receipt and expenditure of the public mo­

ney. The subjects of Justinian who escaped these par­

tial vexations, were oppressed by the irregular mainte­

nance of the soldiers whom Alexander defrauded and

despised; and their hasty sallies, in quest of wealth or

subsistence, provoked the inhabitants of the country

to await or implore their deliverance from the virtues

of a Barbarian. Totilak was chaste and temperate; and

none were deceived, either friends or enemies, who de­

pended on his faith or his clemency. To the husband­

men of Italy the Gothic king issued a welcome procla­

mation, enjoining them to pursue their important la­

bours, and to rest assured, that, on the payment of the

ordinary taxes, they should be defended by his valour and

discipline from the injuries of war. The strong towns

he successively attacked; and as soon as they had

yielded to his arms, he demolished the fortifications ;' to

save the people from the calamities of a future siege, to

deprive the Romans of the arts of defence, and to decide

the tedious quarrel of the two nations, by an equal

and honourable conflict in the field of battle. The

Roman captives and deserters were tempted to inlist in

the service of a liberal and courteous adversary; the

slaves were attracted by the firm and faithful promise,

that they should never be delivered to their masters; and

from the thousand warriors of Pa via, a new people,

either disgraced or despised,, the ink of the Anecdotes (c. 4, 5.18.) is,
scarcely

blacker than that of the Gothic History, (lib. 3. c. 1. 3, 4. 9. 20, 21, &c.)

* Procopins (lib. 3. c. 2. 8. &c.) does ample and willing justice to the merit of  
Totila. The Roman historians, from Sallust and Tacitus, were happy to forget
the

vices of their countrymen in the contemplation of harharic virtue.

VOL. V. T

