CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 13

They exhibit the forms, rather than the substance, of

his government; and we should vainly search for the

pure and spontaneous sentiments of the barbarian amidst

the declamation and learning of a sophist, the wishes of

a Roman senator, the precedents of office, and the vague

professions, which in every court, and on every occasion,

compose the language of discreet ministers. The repu­

tation of Theodoric may repose with more confidence

on the visible peace and prosperity of a reign of thirty-

three years; the unanimous esteem of his own times,

and the memory of his wisdom and courage, his justice

and humanity, which was deeply impressed on the minds

of the Goths and Italians.

The partition of the lands of Italy, of which Theodo-

ric assigned the third part to his soldiers, is honourably

arraigned as the sole injustice of his life. And even this

act may be fairly justified by the example of Odoacer,

the rights of conquest, the true interest of the Italians,

and the sacred duty of subsisting a whole people, who,

on the faith of the promises, had transported themselves

into a distant land.0 Under the reign of Theodoric, and

in the happy climate of Italy, the Goths soon multiplied

to a formidable host of two hundred thousand men,d

and the whole amount of their families may be computed

by the ordinary addition of women and children. Their,

invasion of property, a part of which must have been al­

ready vacant, was disguised by the generous but impro­

per name of hospitality; these unwelcome guests were

irregularly dispersed over the face of Italy, and the lot of

each barbarian was adequate to his birth and office, the

number of his followers, and the rustic wealth which he

possessed in slaves and cattle. The distinctions of noble

and plebeian were acknowledged;* but the lands of every

c Procopias, Gothic.*lib. 1. c. 1. Variorum 2. Maffei (Verona Illastrat. p. i.

p. 228.) exaggerates the injustice of the Goths, whom he hated as an Italian
noble.

The plebeian Muratori crouches under their oppression.

d Procopius, Goth. lib. 3. o. 4. 21. Ennodius describes (p. 1612,1613.) the

military arts and increasing numbers of the Goths.

'When Theodoric gare his sister to the king of the Vandals, she sailed for
Africa

with a guard of one thousand noble Goths, each of « hom was attended by five
armed

