CHAP. Xtlll.} OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2g3

with the blood of the faithful. Buccelin was actuated

by ambition, and Lothaire by avarice. The former as­

pired to restore the Gothic kingdom: the latter, after a

promise to his brother of speedy succours, returned by

the same road to deposit his treasure beyond the Alps.

The strength of their armies was already wasted by the

change of climate and contagion of disease: the Ger­

mans revelled in the vintage of Italy; and their own

intemperance avenged, in some degree, the miseries of a

defenceless people.

At the entrance of the spring, the imperial troops, who

had guarded the cities, assembled to the number of eigh- Defeat of

teen thousand men, in the neighbourhood of Rome. and Aie-

Their winter hours had not been consumed in idleness. Na™e ky

By the command, and after the example, of Narses, they A-D-55*-

repeated each day their military exercise on foot and on

horseback, accustomed their ear to obey the sound of

the trumpet, and practised the steps and evolutions of.

the Pyrrhic dance. From the straits of Sicily, Buccelin,

with thirty thousand Franks and Alemanni, slowly

moved towards Capua, occupied with a wooden tower the

bridge of Casilinum, covered his right by the stream of

the Vulturnus, and secured the rest of his encampment,

by a rampart of sharp stakes, and a circle of waggons,

whose wheels were buried in the earth. He impatiently

expected the return of Lothaire; ignorant, alas! that his

brother could never return, and that the chief and his

army had been swept away by a strange diseased on the

banks of the lake Benacus, between Trent and Verona.

The banners of Narses soon approached the Vulturnus,

and the eyes of Italy were anxiously fixed on the event

of this final contest; Perhaps the talents of the Roman

general were most conspicuous in the calm operations

in Switzerland, idolatry still prevailed in the year 613: St. Colomban and St.
Gall

were the apostles of that rude country; and the latter founded a hermitage,
which

lias swelled into an ecclesiastical principality and a populous city, the seat
of freedom

and commerce.

d See the death of Lothaire in Agathias (lib. 2. p. 38.) and Paul Warnefrid,
sur-

named Diaconus. (lib. 8. c. 3. 775.) The Greek makes bim rave and tear liia
flesh.

He had plundered churches.

