398 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

the poor and savage countries of Germany, which were

subject to the dominion of the Franks. After the two

doubtful battles, he consented to retire; and the Aus^

trasian king relieved the distress of his camp with an

immediate supply of corn and cattle.8 Such repeated

disappointments had chilled the spirit of the Avars; and

their power would have dissolved away in the Sarmatian

desert, if the alliance of Alboin, king of the Lombards,

had not given a new object to their arms, and a lasting

settlement to their wearied fortunes.

Alboin While Alboin served under his father's standard, he

kmg of f

the Lom- encountered in battle, and transpierced with his lance,

his valour, the rival prince of the Gepidae. The Lombards, who

reve'n»e.d applauded such early prowess, requested his father, with

unanimous acclamations, that the heroic youth, who had

shared the dangers of the field, might be admitted to the

feast of victory. "You are not unmindful (replied the

inflexible Audoin) of the wise customs of our ancestors.

Whatever may be his merit, a prince is incapable of sit­

ting at table with his father till he has received his arms

from a foreign and royal hand." Alboin bowed with re­

verence to the institutions of his country; selected forty

companions, and boldly visited the court of Turisund

king of the Gepidae, who embraced and entertained, ac­

cording to the laws of hospitality, the murderer of his

son. At the banquet, whilst Alboin occupied the seat

of the youth whom he had slain, a tender remembrance

arose in the mind of Turisund. "How dear is that place

—how hateful is that person—" were the words that es­

caped, with a sigh, from the indignant father. His grief

exasperated the national resentment of the Gepidae; and

Cunimund, his, surviving son, was provoked by wine, or

fraternal affection, to the desire of vengeance. "The

Lombards, (said the rude barbarian) resemble, in figure

and in smell, the mares of our Sarmatian plains." And

e For the Austrasian war, see Menander, (Excerpt. Legat. p. 110.) Gregory of

Tours, Hist. Franc. lib. 4. c. 29.) and Paul the deacou. (do Gest. Langohard.
lib.

2. c. 10.)

