282 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

to act with energy and effect. The maritime towns, An-

cona, Grotona, Centumcellas, resisted the assaults of

Totila. Sicily was reduced by the zeal of Artaban, and

the Gothic navy was defeated near the coast of the Ha-

driatic. The two fleets were almost equal, forty-seven

to fifty galleys: the victory was decided by the know­

ledge and dexterity of the Greeks; but the ships were so

closely grappled, that only twelve of the Goths escaped

from this unfortunate conflict. They affected to depre­

ciate an element in which they were unskilled, but their

own experience confirmed the truth of a maxim, that the

master of the sea will always acquire the dominion of

the land.' .:

Character After the loss of Germanus, the nations were provok-

d"tionXof ed to smile, by the strange intelligence, that the com-

^*r*°snnBh mand of the Roman armies was given to a eunuch. But

a. d. 552. the eunuch Narsesf is ranked among the few who have

rescued that unhappy name from the contempt and ha­

tred of mankind. A feeble diminutive body concealed

the soul of a statesman and a warrior. His youth had

been employed in the management of the loom and dis­

taff, in the cares of the household, and the service of

female luxury; but while his hands were busy, he se­

cretly exercised the faculties of a vigorous and discerning

mind. A stranger to the schools and the camp, he

studied in the palace to dissemble, to flatter, and to per­

suade; and as soon as he approached the person of the

emperor, Justinian listened with surprise and pleasure to

the manly counsels of his chamberlain and private trea­

surer .* The talents of Narses were tried and improved

e The third book of Procopius is terminated by the death of Germanus. (Add.
lib.

4. c. 23—26.)

f Procopius relates the whole series of this second Gothic war and the victory
of

Narses. (lib. 4. c. 21. 26—35.) A splendid scene! Among the six subjects of
epic

poetry which Tasso revolved in his mind, he hesitated between the conquests of
Italy

by Belisarius and by Narses. (Hayley's Works, vol. 4. p. 70.) ■

? The country of Narses is unknown, since he must not be confounded with the

Persarmenian. Procopius styles him (Gotli. lib. 2. c. 13.) fiaa-tktiteqr
fypfiumit TWfM*C3

Paul Warnefrid (lib. 2. c. 3. p. 776.) Charlularius: Maroellinus adds the name
of

Cubicularius. In an inscription on the Salarian bridge he is entitled fix-
consul, Ex-

prteposilus, Cubiculi Patricius. (Maseou, Hist, of the Germans, lib. 13. c.
25.) The

'law of Theodosiua against euuucbs was obsolete or abolished; (Annotation 20.)
but

