234 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

Syria affected to tremble for the safety of their defence­

less cities. Yet this diversion had already succeeded in

forcing Chosroes to return with loss and precipitation;

and if the skill of Belisarius had been seconded by dis­

cipline and valour, his success might have satisfied the

sanguine wishes of the public, who required at his hands

the conquests of Ctesiphon and the deliverance of the

A. D.542. captives of Antioch. At the end of the campaign, he

was recalled to Constantinople by an ungrateful court,

but the dangers of the ensuing spring restored his confi­

dence and command; and the hero, almost alone, was

dispatched, with the speed of post-horses, to repel, by

his name and presence, the invasion of Syria. He found

'. / the Roman generals, among whom was a nephew of

Justinian, imprisoned by their fears in the fortifications

of Hierapolis. But instead of listening to their timid

counsels, Belisarius commanded them to follow him to

Europus, where he had resolved to collect his forces, and

to execute whatever God should inspire him to achieve

against the enemy. His firm attitude on the banks of

the Euphrates restrained Chosroes from advancing to­

wards Palestine; and he received with art and dignity,

the ambassadors, or rather spies, of the Persian monarch.

The plain between Hierapolis and the river was covered

with the squadrons of cavalry, six thousand hunters tall

and robust, who pursued their game without the appre­

hension of an enemy. On the opposite bank the am­

bassadors descried a thousand Armenian horse, who ap­

peared to guard the passage of the Euphrates. The tent

of Belisarius was of the coarsest linen, the simple equi­

page of a warrior, who disdained the luxury of the east.

Around his tent, the nations who marched uuder his'

standard were arranged with skilful confusion. The

Thracians and Illyrians were posted in the front, the

Heruli and Goths in the centre; the prospect was closed

by the Moors and Vandals, and their loose array seemed

to multiply their numbers. Their dress was light and

*

