CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

which, by mutual respiration^ is transfused from the in­

fected persons to the lungs and stomach of those who

approach them. While philosophers believe and trem­

ble, it is singular, that the existence of a real danger

should have been denied by a people most prone to vain'

and imaginary terrors.8 Yet the fellow-citizens of Pro-

copius were satisfied, by some short and partial expe­

rience, that the infection could not be gained by the:

closest conversation ;b and this persuasion might support

the assiduity of friends or physicians in the care of the

sick, whom inhuman prudence would have condemned

to solitude and despair. But the fatal security, like the

predestination of the Turks, must have aided the progress

of the contagion; and those salutary precautions, to'

which Europe is indebted for her safety* were unknown

to the government of Justinian. No restraints were im-'

posed on the free and frequent intercourse of the Ro-i

man provinces; from Persia to France, the nations were

mingled and infected by wars and emigrations: and the

pestilential odour, which lurks for years in a bale of cot­

ton, was imported, by the abuse of trade, into the most

distant regions. The mode of its propagation is ex­

plained by the remark of Procopius himself, that it al­

ways spread from the sea-coast to the inland country; the'

most sequestered islands and mountains were succes­

sively visited; the places which had escaped the fury of

its passage, were alone exposed to the contagion of the

ensuing year. The winds might diffuse that subtle ve­

nom; but, unless the atmosphere be previously disposed

for its reception, the plague would soon expire in the cold

or temperate climates of the earth. Such was the uni-

a Mead proves that the plagus is contagions, from Thucydides, Lucretius,
Aristo­

tle, Galen, and common experience ; (p. 10-—20.) and he refutes (Preface, p.
2—13.)

the contrary opinion of the French pbysicians who visited Marseilles In the
year

1720, Yet these were the recent and enlightened spectators of a plague which,
in a

few months, swept away fifty thousand inhahitants (sur la Peste de Marseille,
Paris,

1786) of a city that, in the present hour of prosperity and trade, contains no
more

than ninety thousand souls. (Necker, sur les Finances, tom. 1. p. 231.)

b The strong assertions of Prooopins—oure yag ietrgai gut« yaf titnry—are
over­

thrown by the subsequent experience of Evagrius.

VOL. V. Y

