DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

and renown. Their manners were not less ferocious.

The assassination of a royal guest was executed in the

presence, and by the command, of the king's daughter,

who had been provoked by some words of insult, and

disappointed by his diminutive stature; and a tribute,

the price of blood, was imposed on the Lombards, by his

brother, the king of the Heruli. Adversity revived a

sense of moderation and justice, and the insolence of

conquest was chastised by the signal defeat and irrepara­

ble dispersion of the Heruli, who were seated in the

southern provinces of Poland.1 The victories of the

Lombards recommended them to the friendship of the

emperors: and at the solicitation of Justinian, they

passed the Danube, to reduce, according to their treaty,

the cities of Noricum and the fortresses of Pannonia.

But the spirit of rapine soon tempted them beyond these

ample limits; they wandered along the coast of the Ha-

driatic as far as Dyrrachium, and presumed, with familiar

rudeness, to enter the towns and houses of their Roman

allies, and to seize the captives who had escaped from

their audacious hands. These acts of hostility, the sallies,

as it might be pretended, of some loose adventurers, were

disowned by the nation, and excused by the emperor;

but the arms of the Lombards were more seriously en­

gaged by a contest of thirty years, which was terminated

only by the extirpation of the Gepida?. The hostile na­

tions often pleaded their cause before the throne of Con­

stantinople; and the crafty Justinian, to whom the bar­

barians were almost equally odious, pronounced a partial

and ambiguous sentence, and dexterously protracted the

war by slow and ineffectual succours. Their strength

was formidable, since the Lombards, who sent into the

field several myriads of soldiers, still claimed, as the

weaker side, the protection of the Romans. Their spirit

1 Two facts in the narrative of Paul Diaconus (lib. 1. c. 20.) are expressive
of na­

tional manners.—1. Dum ad tabutam luderet—while be played at draughts. 2. Cam-

porum viridantia Una. The cultivation of flax supposes property, commerce,
agri­

culture, and manufactures. -v

