CHAP. XLV1.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 441

consumed the day in single combats, or ineffectual skir­

mishes. The darkness of the night, and the separation

of the Romans, afforded the Persian monarch an oppor­

tunity of revenge; and one of their camps was swept

away by a rapid and impetuous assault. But the review

of his loss, and the consciousness of his danger, deter­

mined Chosroes to a speedy retreat; he burnt, in his

passage, the vacant town of Melitene; and, without con­

sulting the safety of his troops, boldly swam the Euphra­

tes on the back of an elephant. After this unsuccessful

campaign, the want of magazines, and perhaps some in­

road of the Turks, obliged him to disband or divide his

forces; the Romans were left masters of the field, and

their general Justinian, advancing to the relief of the Per-

sarmenian rebels, erected his standard on the banks of

the Araxes. The great Pompey had formerly halted

within three days' march of the Caspian :* that inland sea

was explored for the first time, by a hostile fleet,' and

seventy thousand captives were transplanted from Hyr-

cania to the isle of Cyprus. On the return of spring,

Justinian descended into the fertile plains of Assyria, the

flames of war approached the residence of Nushirvan, the

indignant monarch sunk into the grave, and his last edict His death,

restrained his successors from exposing their person in a

battle against the Romans. Yet the memory of this

transient affront was lost in the glories of a long reign;

and his formidable enemies, after indulging their dream

of conquest, again solicited a short respite from the cala­

mities of war.8

* Ha bad vanquished the Albanians, who brought into the field twelve thousand  
horse and sixtj thousand foot; but he dreaded the multitude of venomous
reptiles,

whose existence may admit of some doubt, as well as that of the neighbouring
Ama­

zons. Plutarch, in Pompeio, torn. 2. p. 1165,1166.

'In the history of the world I can only receive two navies on the
Caspian.—l.Of

the Macedonians, when Patrocles, the admiral of the kings of Syria, Seleucus
and

Antiochus, descended most probably the river Oxus, from the confines of India.
(Plin.

Hist. Natnr. 6. 21.) 2. Of the Russians, when Peter I. conducted a fleet and
army

from the neighbourhood of Mosoow to the coast of Persia. (Bell's Travels, vol.
2. p.

325—352.) He justly observes, that such martial pomp had never been displayed

on the Volga.

I For these Persian wars and treaties, see Menander, in Excerpt. Legal, p. 113

—125. Theophanea Byzant. apud Photiura, eod. 64. p. 77. 80,81. Eragrius, lib.
5.

c. 7—15. Theophylact, lib. 3. c. 9—16. Agathias, lib. 4. p. 140.

VOL. V. 1 G

