CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 167

rable day. "Aim at the bay horse," was the universal

cry. Every bow was bent, every javelin was directed,

against that fatal object, and the command was repeated'

and obeyed by thousands who were ignorant of its real

motive. The bolder barbarians advanced to the more

honourable combat of swords and spears; and the praise

of an enemy has graced the fall of Visandus, the standard-

bearer,g who maintained his foremost station, till he was

pierced with thirteen wounds, perhaps by the hand of

Belisarius himself. The Roman general was strong, ac­

tive, and dexterous: on every side he discharged his

weighty and mortal strokes: his faithful guards imitated

his valour, and defended his person; and the Goths,

after the loss of a thousand men, fled before the arms of

a hero. They were rashly pursued to their camp; and

the Romans, oppressed by multitudes, made a gradual,

and at length a precipitate, retreat to the gates of the

city: the gates were shut against the fugitives; and the

public terror was increased, by the report that Belisarius

was slain. His countenance was indeed disfigured by

6weat, dust, and blood; his voice was hoarse, his strength

was almost exhausted; but his unconquerable spirit still

remained; he imparted that spirit to his desponding

companions; and their last desperate charge was felt

by the flying barbarians, as if a new army, vigorous and

entire, had been poured from the city. The Flaminian vaiourof

gate was thrown open to a real triumph; but it was not

before Belisarius had visited every post, and provided for

the public safety, that he could be persuaded by his wife

and friends, to taste the needful refreshments of food

and sleep. In the more improved state of the art of war,

a general is seldom required, or even permitted, to display

the personal prowess of a soldier; and the example of

harharians, and spadix by the Romans. Honest! spadices, says Virgil. (Georgic.

lib. 3. 7"S. with the observations of Martin and Heyne.) JotSiJ or (3aiw,
signifies a

branch of the palm-tree,whose name <f>om£, is synonimous to red. (Aulus
Gellius, 2. 26.)'

f I interpret SavSaXapio;, not as a proper name, but an office, standard
bearer, from

handum (vexillum), a harharic word adopted by the Greeks and Romans. (Paul

Diacon. lib. 1.e. 20.p. 760. Grot, NominaGothica, p.675. Ducange, Gloss.
Latiu.

tom. 1, p. 539, 540.)

