DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX*

after a dysentery which continued three days, he expired

in the palace of Ravenna, in the thirty-third, or, if we

compute from the invasion of Italy, in the thirty-seventh

year of his reign. Conscious of his approaching end,

he divided his treasures and provinces between his two

grandsons, and fixed the Rhone as their common boun­

dary.1" Amalaric was restored to the throne of Spain.

Italy, with all the conquests of the Ostrogoths, was be­

queathed to Athalaric; whose age did not exceed ten

years, but who was cherished as the last male offspring of

the line of Amali, by the short-lived marriage of his mother

Amalasuntha with a royal fugitive of the same blood."

In the presence of the dying monarch, the Gothic chiefs

and Italian magistrates mutually engaged their faith and

loyalty to the young prince, and to his guardian mother;

and received, in the same awful moment, his last salutary

advice, to maintain the laws, to love the senate and peo­

ple of Rome, and to cultivate with decent reverence the

friendship of the emperor." The monument of Theo-

doric was erected by his daughter Amalasuntha, in a con­

spicuous situation, which commanded the city of Ra­

venna, the harbour and the adjacent coast. A chapel

of a circular form, thirty feet in diameter, is crowned by

a dome of one entire piece of granite: from the centre

of the dome four columns arose, which supported, in a

vase of porphyry, the remains of the Gothic king, sur­

rounded by the brazen statues of the twelve apostles.p

His spirit, after some previous expiation, might have

received this curious anecdote from common report, or from the mouth of the
royal

pbysician. ,

m Procopins, Goth. lib. 1. c. 1. 2. 12, 13. This partition had been directed
by

Theodoric, though it was not executed till after his death. Regni hereditatem
su-

perstes reliquit. (Isidor. Chron. p. 721. edit. Grot.)

"Berimnnd, the third in descent from Hermauric, king of the Ostrogoths, had

retired into Spam, were he lived and died in obscurity. (Jornandes, c. 33. p.
202.

edit. Murator.) See the discovery, nuptials, and death of his grandson
Eutharic.

(o. 58. p. 220.) His Roman games might render him popular; (Cassiodor. in
Chron.)

but Eutharic was asper in religione. (Anonym. Vales, p. 722, 723.)

° See the counsels of Theodoric, and the professions of his successor, in
Procopius,

(Goth. lib. 1. o. 1. 2.) Jornandes, (c. 59. p. 220, 221.) and Cassiodorius.
(Var. 8.

1—7.) These epistles are the triumph of his ministerial eloquence.

P Anonym. Vales, p. 742. Agnellus de Vitis Pont. Raven. in Muratori Script,

Rerum Ital. tom. 2. p. 1. p. 67. Alberti Descrittione d'ltalia, p. 311.

