18 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

in the vicissitude of human affairs, had granted to one

of the descendants of Attila. Sabinian, a general illus­

trious by his own and his father's merit, advanced at the

head of ten thousand Romans; and the provisions and

arms, which filled a long train of waggons, were distri­

buted to the fiercest of the Bulgarian tribes. But, in the

fields of Margus, the eastern powers were defeated by the

inferior forces of the Goths and Huns; the flower and

even the hope of the Roman armies was irretrievably de­

stroyed; and such was the temperance with which Theo-

doric had inspired his victorious troops, that as their

leader had not given the signal of pillage, the rich spoils

H!s nival of the enemy lay untouched at their feet/ Exasperated

armament. n • v i i

a. d.509. by this disgrace, the Byzantine court dispatched two

hundred ships and eight thousand men to plunder the

sea-coast of Calabria and Apulia; they assaulted the an­

cient city of Tarentum, interrupted the trade and agri­

culture of a happy country, and sailed back to the Hel­

lespont, proud of their piratical victory over a people

whom they still presumed to consider as their Roman

brethren/ Their retreat was possibly hastened by the

activity of Theodoric; Italy was covered by a fleet of a

thousand light vessels," which he constructed with incre­

dible dispatch; and his firm moderation was soon re­

warded by a solid and honourable peace. He maintained

with a powerful hand the balance of the west, till it was

at length overthrown by the ambition of Clbvis; and

although unable to assist his rash and unfortunate kins­

man the king of the Visigoths, he saved the remains of

y See the Gothic transactions on the Danube and in IUyricum, in Jornandes, (c.
58.

p. 699.) Ennodins, (p. 1607—1610.) Marcellinus, (io Chron. p. 44. 47, 48.) and
Cas-

siodorius. (in Chrou. and Var. 3. 23. 50. 4. 13. 7. 4. 24. 8. 9—11. 21. 9. 8,
9.)

z I cannot forbear transcrihing the liberal and classic style of count
Marceltinas.

Romanus comes domesticoram, et Rusticas comes scholariorum cam centum armatis

navibus, totidemque dromonibus, octo milliamilitum armatorum secum ferentibus,
ad

devastanda Italiae littora processerunt, et usque ad Tarentum antiquissiman
civitatem

aggressi sunt; reniensoque mari inhouestam victoriani quam piraticii ausu
Romanies

Romanis rapuerunt, Anastasio Cfesari reportarunt. (in Chron. p. 48.) See
Variar. 1.

16. 2. 38.

1 See the royal orders and instructions. (Var. 4. 15. 5. 16—20.) These armed

boats should be still smaller than the thousand vessels of Agamemnun at the
siege of

Troy.

