DECLINE AND FALL [CMA,?. XLI.

ed into the ditch on the heads of the besiegers.6 To

each of his lieutenants, Belisarius assigned the defence of

a gate, with the wise and peremptory instruction, that,

whatever might be the alarm, they should steadily adhere

to their respective posts, and trust their general for the

safety of Rome. The formidable host of the Goths was

insufficient to embrace the ample measure of the city; of

the fourteen gates, seven only were invested from the

Praenestine to the Flaminian way; and Vitiges divided

his troops into six camps, each of which was fortified

with a ditch and rampart. On the Tuscan side of the

river, a seventh encampment was formed in the field or

circus of the Vatican, for the important purpose of com­

manding the Milvian bridge and the course of the Tiber;

but they approached with devotion the adjacent church

of St. Peter; and the threshold of the holy apostles was

respected during the siege by a Christian enemy. In the

ages of victory, as often as the senate decreed some dis­

tant conquest, the consul denounced hostilities, by un­

barring, in solemn pomp, the gates of the temple of Ja­

nus.1" Domestic war now rendered the admonition

superfluous, and the ceremony was superseded by the

establishment of a new religion. But the brazen temple

of Janus was left standing in the Forum, of a size suf­

ficient only to contain the statue of the god, five cubits

in height, of a human form, but with two faces, directed

to the east and west. The double gates were likewise

of brass; and a fruitless effort to turn them on their rusty

hinges, revealed the scandalous secret, that some Romans

were still attached to the superstition of their ancestors.

a Eighteen days were employed by the besiegers, to

8 ° Praxiteles excelled in Fauns, and that of Athens was his own master-piece.

Rome now contains above thirty of the same oharacter. When the ditch of St.
Angelo

was cleansed under Urban VIII., the workmen found the sleeping Faun of the
Bar-

berini palace: but a leg, a thigh, and the right arm, had been broken from
that beau­

tiful statue. (Winckeluian, Hist, de I'Art.tom. 2. p. St,S3, torn. 5. p. 265.)

P Procopios has given the best description of the temple of Janus, a national
deity

of Latium. (Hevne, Excurs. 5.ad lib. 7. JEneid.) It was once a gate in the
primi­

tive city of Romulus and Numa. (Nardini, p. 15. 256. 529.) Virgil has
described

the ancient rite, like a poet and an -antiquarian.

