418 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

of a just retaliation, they renounced their feeble and dis­

orderly independence: the advantages of regal govern­

ment, union, secrecy, and vigour, were unanimously con-

Amiiaris, fessed; and Autharis, the son of Clepho, had already

the8Lom- attained the strength and reputation of a warrior. Un-

a"d.'584 ^er tne stanc'ard of their new king, the conquerors of

—590. Italy withstood three successive invasions, one of which

was led byChildebert himself, the last of the Merovin­

gian race who descended from the Alps. The first expe­

dition was defeated by the jealous animosity of the Franks

and Alemanni. In the second they were vanquished in

a bloody battle, with more loss and dishonour than they

had sustained since the foundation of their monarchy.

Impatient for revenge, they returned a third time with

accumulated force, and Autharis yielded to the fury of

the torrent. The troops and treasures of the Lombards

were distributed in the walled towns between the Alps

and the Apennine. A nation, less sensible of danger,

than of fatigue and delay, soon murmured against the

folly of their twenty commanders; and the hot vapours

of an Italian sun infected with disease those tramontane

bodies which had already suffered the vicissitudes of in­

temperance and famine. The powers that were inade­

quate to the conquest, were more than sufficient for the

desolation of the country; nor could the trembling na­

tives distinguish between their enemies and their deliver­

ers. If the junction of the Merovingian and imperial

forces had been effected in the neighbourhood of Milan,

perhaps they might have subverted the throne of the

Lombards; but the Franks expected six days the signal

of a flaming village, and the arms of the Greeks were

idly employed in the reduction of Modena and Parma,

which were torn from them after the retreat of their

transalpine allies. The victorious Autharis asserted his

claim to the dominion of Italy. At the foot of the Rhae-

tian Alps, he subdued the resistance, and rifled the hidden

treasures of a sequestered island in the lake of Comum.

