DECLINE AND FALL [.CHAP. XLIV.

inquisitors the trial was prepared and directed; but they

could only pronounce the sentence of the majority of

judges, who with some truth, and more prejudice, have

been compared to the English juries.5 To discharge this

important though burdensome office, an annual list of

ancient and respectable citizens was formed by the prae­

tor. After many constitutional struggles, they were

chosen in equal numbers from the senate, the equestrian

order, and the people; four hundred and fifty were ap­

pointed for single questions; and the various rolls or

decuries of judges must have contained the names of some

thousand Romans, who represented the judicial autho­

rity of the state. In each particular cause, a sufficient

number was drawn from the urn; their integrity was

guarded by an oath; the mode of ballot secured their

independence; the suspicion of partiality was removed

by the mutual challenges of the accuser and defendant:

and the judges of Milo, by the retrenchment of fifteen on

each side, were reduced to fifty-one voices or tablets, of

acquittal, of condemnation, or of favourable doubt.' 3.

In his civil jurisdiction, the praetor of the city was truly

a judge, and almost a legislator; but as soon as he had

prescribed the action of law, he often referred to a dele­

gate the determination of the fact. With the increase

of legal proceedings, the tribunal of the centumvirs, in

which he precided, acquired more weight and reputation.

But whether he acted alone, or with the advice of his

council, the most absolute powers might be trusted to a

magistrate who was annually chosen by the votes of the

people. The rules and precautions of freedom have re­

quired some explanation; the order of despotism is simple

and inanimate. Before the age of Justinian, or perhaps of

'The office, both at Rome and in England, must be considered as an occasional

duty, and not a magistracy or profession. But the obligation of a unanimous
verdict

is peculiar to our laws, which condemn the jurymen to undergo the torture from

whence they have exempted the criminal.

'We are indebted for this interesting fact to a fragment of Asconins Pedianns,

who flourished under the reign of Tiberius. The loss of his Commentaries, on
the

Orations of Cicero has deprived as of a valuable fund of historical and legal
know.

Udge.

