CHAP. XLVI.J OF THE ROMAN E"MPIRE. 463

chagan. In the first fervour of indignation, an order was »"d rebel-

signified to the army of the Danube, that they should

spare the magazines of the province, and establish their

winter-quarters in the hostile country of the Avars. The

measure of their grievances was, full: they pronounced

Maurice unworthy to reign, expelled or slaughtered his

faithful adherents, and, under the command of Phocas,

a simple centurion, returned by hasty marches to the

neighbourhood of Constantinople. After a long series ™

of legal succession, the military disorders of the third a. d. coa,

6 • • i i i i r October.

century were again revived; yet such was the novelty ot

the enterprise, that the insurgents were awed by their own

rashness. They hesitated to invest their favourite with

the vacant purple ; and while they rejected all treaty with

Maurice himself, they held a friendly correspondence

with his son Theodosius, and with Germanus, the father-

in-law of the royal youth. So obscure had been the for­

mer condition of Phocas, that the emperor was ignorant

of the name and character of his rival: but as soon as he

learned, that the centurion, though bold in sedition, was

timid in the face of danger, "Alas! (cried the despond­

ing prince) if he is a coward, he will surely be a mur­

derer."

Yet if Constantinople had been firm and faithful, the c'n'un

murderer might have spent his fury against the walls; ,mo»1'-

and the rebel army would have been gradually consumed

or reconciled by the prudence of the emperor. In the

games of the circus, which he repeated with unusual

pomp, Maurice disguised, with smiles of confidence,

the anxiety of his heart, condescended to solicit the ap­

plause of the factions, and flattered their pride by accept­

ing from their respective tribunes a list of nine hundred

blues and fifteen hundred greens, whom he affected to

esteem as the solid pillars of his throne. Their treache­

rous or languid support betrayed his weakness and hast­

ened his fall; the green faction were the secret accom­

plices of the rebels, and the blues recommended lenity

i

f

