CHAP. XUV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

forfeit of an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a limb

for a limb, is rigorously exacted, unless the offender can

redeem his pardon by a fine of three hundred pounds of

copper. The decemvirs distributed with much liberality

the slighter chastisements of flagellation and servitude;

and nine crimes of a very different complexion are ad­

judged worthy of death. 1. Any act of treason against

the state, or of correspondence with the public enemy.

The mode of execution was painful and ignominious;

the head of the degenerate Roman was shrouded in a

veil, his hands were tied behind his back, and, after he

had been scourged by the lictor, he was suspended in

the midst of the forum on a cross, or inauspicious tree.

1. Nocturnal meetings in the city; whatever might be

the pretence, of pleasure, or religion, or the public good.

3. The murder of a citizen; for which the common

feelings of mankind demanded the blood of the mur­

derer. Poison is still more odious than the sword or

dagger; and we are surprised to discover, in two flagiti­

ous events, how early such subtle wickedness had infect­

ed the simplicity of the republic, and the chaste virtues

of the Roman matrons." The parricide who violated

the duties of nature and gratitude, was cast into the river

or the sea, enclosed in a sack; and a cock, a viper, a dog,

and a monkey, were successively added as the most suit­

able companions." Italy produces no monkeys; but

the want could never be felt, till the middle of the sixth

century first revealed the guilt of a parricide.p 4. The

■ Lrvy mentions two remarkable and flagitious eras, of three thousand persons
ac­

cused, and of one hundred and ninety noble matrons convicted, of the crime of
poi­

soning. (40. 43. 8. 18.) Mr. Hume discriminates the ages ofpublioand private
vir­

tue. (Essays, vol. 1. p. 22,23.) I would rather say that such ebullitions of
mischief

(as in France in the year 1680.) are accidents and prodigies which leave no
marks on

the manners of a nation.

• The twelve tables and Cicero (pro Roscio Amerino, c. 25, 26.) are content
with

the sack; Seneca (Excerpt. Controvers. 5. 4.) adorns it with serpents; Juvenal

pities the guiltless monkey, (innoxia simia—Satir. 13.156.) Hadrian (apnd
Dosi-

theum Magistrum, lib. 3. c. 16. p. 874—876. with Schulting's Note),
Modestinus,

(Pandect. 48. tit. 9. leg. 9.) Constantino, (Cod. lib. 9. lit. 17.) and
Justinian, (Insti-

tnt lib. 4. tit. 18.) enumerate all the companions of the parricide. But this
fanciful

execution was simplified in practice. Hodie tamen vivi exuruntur vel ad
bestiasdan-

tnr. (Paul. Sentenl. Recept. lib. 5. tit. 24. p. 512. edit. Schilling.)

* The 6rst parricide at Rome was L. Ostius, after the, second Punic war. (Pla ■

2 C 2

