CHAP; XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 187

overthrown and slain1 by a wild bull,1" as he hunted in the

Belgic or German forests.

As soon as Belisarius was delivered from his foreign

and domestic enemies, he seriously applied his forces to

the final reduction of Italy. In the siege of Osimo, the Belisari«»

general was nearly transpierced with an arrOW, if the Ravenna,

mortal stroke had not been intercepted by one of his

guards, who lost, in that pious office, the use of his hand.

The Goths of Osimo, four thousand warriors, with those

of Fsesulze and the Cottian Alps, were among the last

who maintained their independance; and their gallant

resistance, which almost tired the patience, deserved

the esteem of the conqueror. His prudence refused to

subscribe the safe conduct which they asked, to join

their brethren of Ravenna; but they saved, by an ho­

nourable capitulation, one moiety at least of their wealth,

with the free alternative of retiring peaceably to their

estates, or enlisting to serve the emperor in his Persian

wars. The multitudes, which yet adhered to the standard

of Vitiges, far surpassed the number of the Roman

troops; but neither prayers, nor defiance, nor the ex­

treme danger of his most faithful subjects, could tempt

the Gothic king beyond the fortifications of Ravenna.

These fortifications were, indeed, impregnable to the as­

saults of art or violence; and when Belisarius invested

the capital, he was soon convinced that famine only

could tame the stubborn spirit of the barbarians. The sea,

the land, and the channels of the Po, were guarded by the

vigilanceof the Roman general; and his morality extended

the rights of war to the practice of poisoning the waters,"

1 The king pointed his spear—the bull overturned a tree on his head—he expired

the same day. Such is the story of Agathias J bnt the original historians of
France

(torn. 2. p. 202. 403. 558. 667.) impute his death to a fever.

m Without losing myself in a labyrinth of species and names—the aurochs, urns,

bisons, bubalus, bonasus, buffalo, &c. (Buffon, Hist. Nat. torn. 11. and
Supplement,

lora. 3. 6.) it is certain, that in the sixth century a large wild species of
horned cattle

was hunted in the great forests of the Vosges in Lorraine, and the Ardennes.
(Greg.

Turon. torn. 2. lib. 10. c. 10. p. 369.)

n In the siege of Auximum, he first laboured to demolish an old aqueduct, and

then cast into the stream, I. dead bodies: 2. mischievous herbs: and, 3. quick
lime,

which is named (says Procopius, lib. 2. c. 29.) titcvoc by the ancients; by
the rao-

o 2

