CHAP. XL,] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 50.

laws. The first edict of Justinian, which was often re­

peated, and sometimes executed, announced his firm re­

solution to support the innocent, and to chastise the

guilty of every denomination and colour. Yet the ba­

lance of justice was still inclined in favour of the blue

faction, by the secret affection, the habits, and the fears

of the emperor; his equity, after an apparent struggle,

submitted, without reluctance, to the implacable passions

of Theodora, and the empress never forgot, or forgave,

the injuries of the comedian. At the accession of the

younger Justin, the proclamation of equal and rigorous

justice indirectly condemned the partiality of the former

reigns. "Ye blues, Justinian is no more! ye greens,

he is still alive !"c

A sedition, which almost laid Constantinople in ashes, Sedition of

was excited by the mutual hatred and momentary recon- nopie^*'*'

ciliation of the two factions. In the fifth year of his "'£*mea

reign, Justinian celebrated the festival of the ides of Ja-D 53?«

nuary: the games were incessantly disturbed by the cla- a°n4 7

morous discontent of the greens; till the twenty-second

race, the emperor maintained his silent gravity ; at length

yielding to his impatience, he condescended to hold, in

abrupt sentences, and by the voice of a crier, the most

singular dialogued that ever passed between a prince and

his subjects. Their first complaints were respectful and

modest; they accused the subordinate ministers of op­

pression, and proclaimed their wishes for the long life

and victory of the emperor. "Be patient and attentive

ye insolent railers (exclaimed Justinian)! be mute, ye

Jews, Samaritans, and Manichasans!" The greens still

attempted to awaken his compassion. "We are poor,

we are innocent, we are injured, we dare not pass through

c See John Malala. (torn. 2. p. 147); yet he owns that Justinian was attached
to

the blues. The seeming discord of the emperor and Theodora, is perhaps viewed

with too much jealoosy and refinement by Procopius. (Anccdot. c. 10.) See
Aleman.

Praifat. p. 6.

d This dialogue, which Tlicophanes has preserved, exhibits the popular
language,

as well as the manners, of Constantinople in the seventh century. Their Greek
is

mingled with many strange and barbarous words, for which Ducange cannot always

find a meaning or etymology.

F 2

