316 DECLINE AND PALL [CHAP. XLIV

On the subject of civil law, which has exhausted so many

learned lives, and clothed the walls of such spacious li­

braries. In a single, if possible in a short chapter, I shall

trace the Roman jurisprudence from Romulus to Justi­

nian,' appreciate the labours of that emperor, and pause

to contemplate the principles of a science so important

to the peace and happiness of society. The laws of a

nation form the most instructive portion of its history;

and, although I have devoted myself to write the annals

of a delining monarchy, I shall embrace the occasion to

breathe the pure and invigorating air of the republic.

Laws of The primitive government of Romef was composed,

of'itome! with some political skill, of an elective king, a council of

nobles, and a general assembly of the people. War and

religion were administered by the supreme magistrate;

and he alone proposed the laws, which were debated in

the senate, and finally ratified or rejected by a majority

of votes in the thirty cwrice or parishes of the city. Ro­

mulus, Numa, and Servius Tullius, are celebrated as

the most ancient legislators; and each of them claims

his peculiar part in the threefold division of Jurispru­

dence.8 The laws of marriage, the education of children,

and the authority of parents, which may seem to draw

their origin from nature itself, are ascribed to the untu­

tored wisdom of Romulus. The law of nations and of

religious worship, which Numa introduced, was derived

from his nocturnal converse with the nymph Egeria.

The civil law is attributed to the experience of Servius r

he balanced the rights and fortunes of the seven classes

of citizens; and guarded, by fifty new regulations, the

e Our original text is a fragment de Origine Juris (Pandect, lib. 1. tit. 2.)
of Pom-

ponius, a Roman lawyer, who lived under the Antonines, (Heinecc. tom. 3. syll.
8.

p. 66—126.) It has been abridged, and prohably corrupted, by Tribonian, and

since restored by Bynkershnek. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 279—304.)

f The constitutional history of the kings of Rome may be studied in the first
book

Of IJvyf and more copiously in Diouysius Halicarnassensis, (lib. 2. p. 80—96.
119

■—130; lib. 4. p. 198—220.) who sometimes betrays the character of a
rhetorician

and a Greek.

t This threefold division of the law was applied to the three Roman kings by
Justus

Lipsius, (Opp. tom. 4. p. 279.) is adopted by Gravina, (Origincs Juris
Civilis, p. 28.

edit. Lips. 1737.) and is reluctantly admitted by Mascou, his German editor.

