DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

the appellation of philosopher, liberty and the consul­

ship were founded at Rome by the elder Brutus. The

revolutions of the consular office, which may be viewed

in the successive lights of a substance, a shadow, and

a name, have been occasionally mentioned in the pre­

sent history. The first magistrates of the republic

had been chosen by the people, to exercise, in the

senate, and in the camp, the powers of peace and war,

which were afterward translated to the emperors. But

the tradition of ancient dignity was long revered by the

Romans and barbarians. A gothic historian applauds

the consulship of Theodoric as the height of all temporal

glory and greatness ;s the king of Italy himself congratu-i

lates those annual favourites of fortune, who, without the

cares, enjoyed the splendour of the throne; and at the

end of a thousand years, two consuls were created by the

sovereigns of Rome and Constantinople, for the sole

purpose of giving a date to the year, and a festival to the

people. But the expenses of this festival, in which the

wealthy and the vain aspired to surpass their predeces.-

sors, insensibly arose to the enormous sum of 80,000/.

the wisest senators declined a useless honour, which in­

volved the certain ruin of their families; and to this re;-

luctance I should impute the frequent chasms in the last

age of the consular Fasti. The predecessors of Justi­

nian had assisted from the public treasures the dignity of

the less opulent candidates; the avarice of that prince

preferred the cheaper and more convenient method of

advice and regulation.' Seven processions or spectacles

were the number to which his edict confined the horse

and chariot races, the athletic sports, the music, and pan­

tomimes of the theatre, and the hunting of wild beasts;

and small pieces of silver were discreetly substituted to

the gold medals, which had always excited tumult and

• Cassiodor. Variaram Epist. 6. 1. Jornandes, c. 57. p. 696. edit, Grot. Qnod

summum bonam primumque in muudo decus edicitur.

'Sve the regulations of Justinian, (Novell. 105.) dated at Constantinople,
July 5,

aud a'dressed to Strategius, treasurer of the empire. - ,

