CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 21

abated or eluded by the slow artifice of judicial proceed­

ings; the civil administration, with its honours and emo­

luments, was confined to the Italians; and the people

still preserved their dress and language, their laws and

customs, their personal freedom, and two-thirds of their

landed property. It had been the object of Augustus

to conceal the introduction of monarchy; it was the po­

licy of Theodoric to disguise the reign of a barbarian.1

If his subjects were sometimes awakened from this pleas­

ing vision of a Roman government, they derived more

substantial comfort from the character of a Gothic

prince, who had penetration to discern, and firmness to

pursue, his own and the public interest. Theodoric

loved the virtues which he possessed, and the talents of

which he was destitute. Liberius was promoted to the

office of praetorian prefect for his unshaken fidelity to

the unfortunate cause of Odoacer. The ministers of

Theodoric, Cassiodorius,1 and Boethius, have reflected

on his reign the lustre of their genius and learning.

More prudent or more fortunate than his colleague, Cas­

siodorius preserved his own esteem without forfeiting the

royal favour; and after passing thirty years in the ho­

nours of the world, he was blessed with an equal term of

repose in the devout and studious solitude of Squillace.

As the patron of the republic, it was the interest and Prosperity

duty of the Gothic king to cultivate the affections of the

senate" and the people. The nobles of Rome were flat­

tered by sonorous epithets and formal professions of re-

vinces that now form the kingdom of Naples, is laboured by Giannone (tom.l .
p. 172.

178). with patriotic diligence.

k See the Gothic history of Procopins, (lib. 1. c. 1. lib. 2. c. 6.) the
Epistles of

Cassiodorius,(passim, but especially the fifth and sixth books, which contain
Iheformttle

tor patents of offices,) and the Civil History of Giannone. (tom. 1. lib. 2,
3.) The Gfn-

thic counts, which he places in every Italian city, are annihilated, however,
by Maffei

(Verona Illastrata, p. 1. lib. 8. p. 227.) for those of Syracuse and Naples,
(Var. 6. 22,

23.) were special and temporary commissions.

1 Two Italians of the name of Cassiodorius, the father (Var. 1. 24. 40.) and
the son

(9. 24, 25.) were successively employed in the administration of Theodoric.
The

son was born in the year 479, his various epistles as quaestor, master of the
offices,

and praetorian prefect, extend from 509 to 539, and he lived as a monk about
thirty

years. (Tiraboschi Storia della Letteratura Italiana, tom. 3. p. 7—24.
Fabricius,

Bibliot. Lat. Med. Mvi, tom. 1 p. 357, 358. edit Mansi.)

■ See his regard for the senate iu Cochloeus. (Vit. Theod. 8. p. 72—80.)

