CHAP.XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

more essential duties. But his just confidence was

placed in the veterans who had fought under his banner

in the Persian and African wars; and although that gal­

lant band was reduced to five thousand men, he under­

took, with such contemptible numbers, to defend a circle

of twelve miles, against an army of one hundred and fifty

thousand barbarians. In the walls of Rome, which Be-

lisarius constructed or restored, the materials of ancient

architecture may be discerned and the whole fortifica­

tion was completed, except in a chasm still extant be­

tween the Pincian and Flaminian gates, which the pre­

judices of the Goths and Romans left under the effectual

guard of St. Peter the apostle.1 The battlements or bas­

tions were shaped in sharp angles; a ditch, broad and

deep, protected the foot of the rampart; and the archers

on the rampart were assisted by military engines—the

balista, a powerful cross-bow, which darted short but

massy arrows; the onagri, or wild asses, which, on the

principle of a sling, threw stones and bullets of an enor­

mous size.m A chain was drawn across the Tiber; the

arches of the aqueducts were made impervious, and the

mole or sepulchre of Hadrian" was converted, for.the first

time, to the uses of a citadel. That venerable structure,

which contained the ashes of the Antonines, was a circu­

lar turret rising from a quadrangular basis: it was cover­

ed with the white marble of Paros, and decorated by the

statues of gods and heroes; and the lover of the arts

must read with a sigh, that the works of Praxiteles or

Lysippus were torn from their lofty pedestals, and hurl-

k The accurate eye of Nardini (Roma Antica, lib. 1. c. 8. p. 31.) could
distinguish

the tamnltuarie opera di Balisario.

1 The fissure and leaning in the upper part of the wall, which Procopius
observed,

(Goth.lib-. 1.e. 13.) is visible to the present hour. (Donat. Roma Vetus, lib.
1. c.17.

p. 53, 54.)

* Lipsius (Opp. tom. 3. Poliorcet. lib. 3.) was ignorant of this clear and conspicu­  
ous passage of Procopius. (Goth. lib. 1. c. 21.) Theengine was named ova^o;,
the

wild ass, a calcitrando. (Hen. Steph. Thesaur. Linguae Graec. tom 2. p.
1340,1341.

tom. 3. p. 877.) I have seen an ingenious model, oontrived and executed by
general

Melville, which imitates or surpasses the art of antiquity.

"The description of this mausoleum, or mole, in Procopius, (lib. 1. c. 25.) is
thi

first and best. The height above the walls u-^eSov c; Xiflou (JoXiv. On
Pfolli's great

plan, the sides measure two hundred and sixty Hnglishfeet.

VOL. V. N

