DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

spect, which had been more justly applied to the merit

and authority of their ancestors. The people enjoyed,

without fear or danger, the three blessings of a capital-

order, plenty, and public amusements. A visible dimi­

nution of their numbers may be found even in the mea­

sure of liberality ;n yet Apulia, Calabria, and Sicily, pour­

ed their tribute of corn into the granaries of Rome; an

allowance of bread and meat was distributed to the indi­

gent citizens; and every office was deemed honourable

which was consecrated to the care of their health and hap­

piness. The public games, such as a Greek ambassador

might politely applaud, exhibited a faint and feeble copy

of the magnificence of the Caesars: yet the musical, the

gymnastic, and the pantomime arts, had not totally sunk

in oblivion; the wild beasts of Africa still exercised in the

amphitheatre the courage and dexterity of the hunters;

and the indulgent Goth either patiently tolerated or

gently restrained the blue and green factions, whose con­

tests so often filled the circus with clamour, and even with

blood.0 In the seventh year of his peaceful reign, Theo-

doric visited the old capital of the world; the senate and

people advanced in solemn procession to salute a second

Trajan, a new Valentinian; and he nobly supported that

character by the assurance of a just and legal govern­

ment,1" in a discourse which he was not afraid to pro­

nounce in public, and to inscribe on a tablet of brass.

Rome, in this august ceremony, shot a last ray of de­

clining glory; and a saint, the spectator of this pompous

scene, could only hope in his pious fancy, that it was. ex­

celled by the celestial splendour of the New Jerusalem.q

During a residence of six months, the fame, the person,

* No more than one hundred and twenty thousand moilii, or four thousand quarters.  
(Anonym. Valesian. p. 721. and Var. 1. 35. 6. 18. It. 5. 39.)

° See his regard and indulgence for the spectacles of the circus, the
amphitheatre,

and the theatre, in the Chronicle and Epistles of Cassiodorius (Var. 1. 20.
27. S0»

31,32. 3. 5 I. 4.51.) illustrated by the fourteenth annotation of Mascou's
History),

who has contrived to sprinkle the subject with ostentatious, though agreeable,
learning.

P Anonym. Vales, p. 721. Marius Aventicensis in Chron. In the scale of publio

and personal merit, the Gothic conqueror is at least as much above Valentinian
as he

may seem inferior lo Trajan.

4 Vit. Fiiigeiitii in Baron. Annal, Eccles. A. D. 500. no. 10.

