CHA1'. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 415

ven, a patriot king, had been confirmed as a proper and

permanent blessing. But in less than four years after

the death of Justin, his worthy successor sunk into a

mortal disease, which left him only sufficient time to re­

store the diadem, according to the tenure by which he

held it, to the most deserving of his fellow-citizens. He

selected Maurice from the crowd, a judgment more pre­

cious than the purple itself: the patriarch and senate

were summoned to the bed of the dying prince; he be­

stowed his daughter and the empire; and his last advice

was solemnly delivered by the voice of the quaestor.

Tiberius expressed his hope, that the virtues of his son

and successor would erect the noblest mausoleum to his

memory. His memory was embalmed by the public

affliction; but the most sincere grief evaporates in the

tumult of a new reign, and the eyes and acclamations

of mankind were speedily directed to the rising sun.

The emperor Maurice derived his origin from ancient The reign

Rome/ but his immediate parents were settled at Arabis- ^f 582?

susinCappadocia,andtheir singular felicity preserved them *ug.

alive to behold and partake the fortune of their august son. Nov. 27.

The youth of Maurice was spent in the profession of

arms ; Tiberius promoted him to the command of a new

and favourite legion of twelve thousand confederates;

his valour and conduct were signalized in the Persian

war; and he returned to Constantinople to accept, as his

just reward, the inheritance of the empire. Maurice

ascended the throne at the mature age of forty-three

years; and he reigned above twenty years over the east

and over himself ;s expelling from his mind the wild de­

mocracy of passions, and establishing (according to the

'It is therefore singular enough that Paul (lib. 3. c. 15.) should distinguish
him

as the first Greek emperor—primus ex Grrecorum genere in imperio oonstitutus.

His immediate predecessors had indeed been born in the Latin provinces of
Europe;

and a various reading, in Graecorum imperio, would appty the expression to the
em­

pire rather than the prince.

* Consult for the character and reign of Maurice, the fifth and sixth books of Eva-  
grius, particularly lib. 6. c. 1. the eight books of his prolix and florid
history byTheo-

pbylact Simotatta; Theopbines, P. 213, &c. Zonaias, tom 2. lib. 14. P. 73.
Cedrenus,

p. 594.

