CHAP, XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 343

of Papinian and Ulpian. The science of the laws is the

sloW growth of time and experience, and the advantage

both of method and materials is naturally assumed by

the most recent authors. The civilians of the reign of

the Antonines had studied the works of their predeees*

sors: their philosophic spirit had mitigated the rigour of

antiquity, simplified the forms of proceeding, and emerg­

ed from the jealousy and prejudice of the rival sects. The

choice of the authorities that compose the Pandects, de-*

pended on the judgment of Tribonian: but the power

of his sovereign could not absolve him from the sacred

obligations of truth and fidelity. As the legislator of

the empire, Justinian might repeal the acts of the An­

tonines, or condemn, as seditious, the free principles^

which were maintained by the last of the Roman law­

yers.1 But the existence of past facts is placed beyond

the reach of despotism; and the emperor was guilty of

fraud and forgery, when he corrupted the integrity of

their text, inscribed with their venerable names the

words and ideas of his servile reign,1" and suppressed, by

the hand of power, the pure and authentic copies of

their sentiments. The changes and interpolations of

Tribonian and his colleagues are excused by the pretence

of uniformity: but their cares have been insufficient;

and the antinomies, or contradictions of the Code and

Pandects, still exercise the Patience and subtlety of mo­

dern civilians."

A rumour devoid of evidence has been propagated by Lossoflne

r ° J ancient ju-

1 risprudence

collected by Duker. (Opuscnla de Lalinitale velerum Jurisconsultorura, Lugd.
Bat.

1721. !n 12ni<>.)

1 Nomina quidem vcteribus servavimus, legum antem veritatem nostram fecimns.

Itaque siquid erat in illis seditiosum, inulta autem talia erant ibi reposita,
hoc deci-

lom est ot definitmn, et in perspicaum finem dedacla est quxque lex. (Cod.
Justi­

nian, lib. 1. tit. 17. leg. 3. no. 10.) A frank confession!

nl The number of these emblemata (a polite name for forgeries) is much reduced
by

Byukershoek (in the four last books of his observations), who poorly maintains
the

right of Justinian and the duty of Tribonian. 3

"The antinomies, or opposite laws of the Code and Pandects, are sometimes

the cauae, and often the excuse, of the glorious uncertainty Of the civil law]

which ao often affords what Montague calls "Questions ponr l'Ami." See a

fine passage of Franciscus Balduiuus in Justinian, (lib. 2. p. 259, &c. apnd
Linden

wig, f> 305, 306.)

