DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

peninsula to Trebizond the eastern curve of the Euxine

was secured by forts, by alliance, or by religion: and

the possession of Lazica, the Colchos of ancient, the

Mingrelia of modern, geography, soon became the ob­

ject of an important war. Trebizond, in after-times the

seat of a romantic empire, was indebted to the liberality

of Justinian for a church, an aqueduct, and a castle,

whose ditches are hewn in the solid rock. From that

maritime city, a frontier-line of five hundred miles may

be drawn to the fortress of Circesium, the last Roman

6tation on the Euphrates.™ Above Trebizond immedi­

ately, and five days' journey to the south, the country

rises into dark forests and craggy mountains, as savage,

though not so lofty, as the Alps and the Pyrenees. In

this rigorous climate," where the snows seldom melt, the

fruits are tardy and tasteless; even honey is poisonous;

the most industrious tillage would be confined to some

pleasant valleys; and the pastoral tribes obtained a scanty

sustenance from the flesh and milk of their cattle. The

Chalybians0 derived their name and temper from the iron

quality of the soil; and, since the days of Cyrus, they

might produce, under the various appellations of Chal­

deans, and Zanians, an uninterrupted prescription of war

and rapine. Under the reign of Justinian, they acknow­

ledged the God and the emperor of the Romans, and

deserved the cariosity of Busbequius (p. 321—326.); hat seem to have vanished
in

the more recent account of the Missions da Levant, (tom. 1.) Tott, Peyssonel,
&o.

m For the geograpby and architecture of this Armenian border, see the Persian

Wars and Edifices (lib. 2. o.4—7. lib.3. c. 2—7.) of Procopius,

"The country is described by Togrnefort. (Voyage au Levant, tom. 3. lettre 17,

18.) That skilful botanist soon discovered the plant that infects the honey.
(Plin,

21. 44, 45.) He observes, that the soldiers of Lucnllas might indeed be
astonished

at the cold, since, even in the plain of Erzerum, snow sometimes falls in
Jane, and the

harvest is seldom finished before September. The hills of Armenia are below
the

fortieth degree of latitude; but in the mountainous country which I inhahit,
it is well

known that an ascent of some hours carries the traveller from the climate of
Langae?

doc to that of Norway, and a general theory has been introduced, that under
the line,

an elevation of two thousand four hundred toises is equivalent to the cold of
the polar

circle. (Romond, Observations sur les Voyages de Coxe dans la Suisse, tom. 2.

p. 104.)

• The identity or proximity of the Chalyhians, or Chaldeans, may be
investigated

in Strabo, (lib. 12. p. 825, 826.) Cellarius, Geograph. Antiq. tom. 2. p.
202—204.)

and Freret (Mem. de I'Academic, tom. 4. p. 594.) Xenophnn supposes, in his ro­

mance, (Cyropaed. lib. 3.) the same harharians against whom he had fought iu
his re­

treat. (Anahasis, lib. iv.)

