DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

most faithful of the enemy; and his fortunate captives,

the Vandals, the Moors, and the Goths, emulated the

attachment of his domestic followers. By the union of

liberality and justice, he acquired the love of the soldiers,

without alienating the affections of the people. The

sick and wounded were relieved with medicines and

money; and, still more efficaciously, by the healing visits

and smiles of their commander. The loss of a weapon

or a horse was instantly repaired, and each deed of valour

was rewarded by the rich and honourable gifts of a brace­

let or a collar, which were rendered more precious by

the, judgment of Belisarius. He was endeared to the

husbandmen, by the peace and plenty which they enjoy­

ed under the shadow of his standard. Instead of being

injured, the country was enriched by the march of the

Roman armies; and such was the rigid discipline of their

camp, that not an apple was gathered from the tree, not

a path could be traced in the fields of corn. Belisarius

was chaste and sober. In the licence of a military life,

none could boast that they had seen him intoxicated with

wine: the most beautiful captives of Gothic or Vandal

race were offered to his embraces; but he turned aside

from their charms, and the husband of Antonina was

never suspected of violating the laws of conjugal fidelity.

The spectator and historian of his exploits has observed,

that, amidst the perils of war, he was daring without

rashness, prudent without fear, slow or rapid according

to the exigencies of the moment; that in the deepest

distress he was animated by real or apparent hope, but

that he was modest and humble in the most prosperous

fortune. By these virtues, he equalled or excelled the

ancient masters of the military art. Victory, by sea and

land, attended his arms. He subdued Africa, Italy, and

the adjacent islands, led away captives the successors of

Genseric and Theodoric; filled Constantinople with the

spoils of their palaces, and in the space of six years reco­

vered half the provinces of the western empire. In his

