CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 431

was rejected with the deepest abhorrence; and the pope

asserted, most probably with truth, that a linen which

had been sanctified in the neighbourhood of his body,

or the filings of his chain, which it was sometimes easy

and sometimes impossible to obtain, possessed an equal

degree of miraculous virtue/ But the power as well as

virtue of the apostles resided with living energy in the

breasts of their successors; and the chair of St. Peter was

filled under the reign of Maurice by the first and great­

est of the name of Gregory.5 His grandfather Felix had Birth and

himself been pope, and as the bishops were already bound of Grego-"

by the law of celibacy, his consecration must have beenry tlle Ro"

J * mait.

preceded by the death of his wife. The parents of Gre­

gory, Sylvia and Gordian, were the noblest of the senate,

and the most pious of the church of Rome: his female

relations were numbered among the saints and virgins;

and his own figure with those of his father and mother

were represented near three hundred years in a family

portrait,' which he offered to the monastery of St. An­

drew. The design and colouring of this picture afford

ah honourable testimony, that the art of painting was cul­

tivated by the Italians of the sixth century ; but the most

abject ideas must be entertained of their taste and learn­

ing, since the epistles of Gregory, his sermons, and his

r Gregor. lib. 3. epist. 24. edict. 12, &c. From the epistles of Gregory, and
the

eighth volume of the Annals of Baronins,-the pious reader may collect the
particles

of holy iron which were inserted in keys or crosses of gold, and distributed
in Bri­

tain, Gaul, Spain, Africa, Constantinople, and Egypt. The pontifical smith who
han­

dled the file must have understood the miracles which it was in his own power
to ope­

rate or withhold ; a circumstance which ahates the superstition of Gregory at
the ex»

pense of his veracity.

• Besides the epistles of Gregory himself, which are methodised by Dupin, (Br-

blintheque Eccles. tom. 5. p. 103—126.) we have three lives of the pope; the
two

first written in the eighth and ninth centuries (de Triplici Vita St. Greg.
Preface to

the fourth volume of the Benedictine edition), by the deacons Paul (p. 1—18.)
and

John, (p. 19—188.) and containing much original, though doubtful, evidenee;
the

third, a long and laboured compilation by the Benedictine editors, (p,
199—305.)

The Annals of Barouius are a copious but partial history. His papal prejudices
are

tempered by the good sense of Fleury, (Hist. Ecoles. tom. 8.) and his
chronology

has been rectified by the criticism of Pagi and Muratori.

1 John the deacon has described them like an eye-wituess, (lib. 4. c. 83, 84.)
and

his description is illustrated byAngelo Rocca, a Roman antiquary, (St. Greg.
Opera,

tom. 4. p. 312—326.) who observes, that some Mosaics of the popes of the
seventh

century are still preserved in the old churches of Rome. (p. 321—323.) The
same

walls which represented Gregory's family, are now decorated with the martyrdom
of

St, Andrew, the noble contest of Pominichino and Guide. ,

