66 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL,

which the Phoenicians extracted from a shell-fish, was

restrained to the sacred person and palace of the empe­

ror; and the penalties of treason were denounced against

the ambitious subjects, who dared to usurp the preroga­

tive of the throne."

«uk b^tue 'neef*not exP'a'n tnat SZ'^P *s originally spun from the

Romans, bowels of a caterpillar, and that it composes the golden

tomb from whence a worm emerges in the form of a

butterfly. Till the reign of Justinian, the silk-worms,

who feed on the leaves of the white mulberry-tree, were

confined to China; those of the pine, the oak, and the

ash, were common in the forests both of Asia and

Europe; but as their education is more difficult,' and

their produce more uncertain, they were generally ne­

glected, except in the little island of Ceos, near the coast

of Attica. A thin gauze was procured from their webs;

and Cean manufacture, the invention of a woman, for

female use, was long admired both in the east and at

Rome. Whatever suspicions may be raised by the gar­

ments of the Medes and Assyrians, Virgil is the most

ancient writer, who expressly mentions the soft wool

which was combed from the trees of the Seres or Chi­

nese ;q and this natural error, less marvellous than the

truth, was slowly corrected by the knowledge of a valu­

able insect, the first artificer "of the luxury of nations.

That rare and elegant luxury was censured in the reign

and satisfy the reader. I doubt whether his book, especially in England, is as
well

known as it deserves to be.

° Historical proofs of this jealousy hare been occasionally introduced, and
many

more might have been added; but the arhitrary acts of despotism were justified
by

the sober and general declarations of law. (Codex. Theodosian. lib. 10. tit.
2t. leg. 3.

Codex. Justiniau. lib. 11. Lit. 8. leg 5.) An inglorious permission, and
necessary

restriction, was applied to the mimiE, the female-dancers. (Cod. Theodos. lib.
15. tit. 7.

leg. 11.)

P In the history of insects (far more wonderful than Ovid's Metamorphoses) the

silk-worm holds a conspicuous place. The bombyx of the isle of Ceos, as
described

by Pliny (Hist. Natur. 11. 26, 27. with the notes of the two learned Jesuits,
Har-

duuin and Brotier), may be illustrated by a similar species in China (Memoires
sur

les Chinois, tom. 2. p. 575—598.) ; but oor silk-worm, as well as the white
mulberry-

tree, were unknown to Theophrastus and Pliny.

1 Georgio. 2.121. Serica quando venerint in usum plauissime non scio :
suspicor

tamen in Julii Caesaris aevo, nam ante non invenio, says Justus Lipsius.
(Excursus 1.

ad Tacit. Anual. 2. 32.) See Dion Cassius. (lib. -13. p. 358. edit.) Reiniar,
and

Pausanias, (lib. 6. p. 519.) the first who describes, however strangely, the
Serio

insect.

