CHAP. XH.] OF T*^E ROMAN EMPIRE. J30,

and ninety-six for the prefect himself, fifty for each of

his vicegerents; and the rigid definition of their fees

and salaries was more effectual to conform the right,

than to prevent the abuse. These magistrates might

be oppressive, but they were not idle: and the subtle

questions of justice and revenue were infinitely propa­

gated under the new government, which professed to

revive the freedom and equity of the Roman republic.

The cqnqueror was solicitous to exact a prompt and

plentiful supply from his African subjects; and he allow­

ed them to claim, even in the third degree, and from

the collateral line, the houses and lands of which their

families had been unjustly despoiled by the Vandals.

After the departure of Belisarius, who acted by a high

and special commission, no ordinary provision was made

for a master-general of the forces; but the office of

praetorian prefect was intrusted to a soldier ; the ci-

yil and military powers were united, according to the

practice of Justinian, in the chief governor; and the

representative of the emperor in Africa, as well as in

Italy, was soon distinguished by the appellation of

Exarch."

Yet the conquest of Africa was imperfect, till her for- Distress

mer sovereign was delivered, either alive or dead, into Thy of1"1

the hands of the Romans. Doubtful of the event, Ge- J^bum*.

limer had given secret orders that a part of his treasure —".ie

should be transported to Spain, where he hoped to find a

secure refuge at the court of the king of the Visigoths.

§ujt these intentions were disappointed by accident, trea­

chery, and the indefatigable pursuit of his enemies, who

intercepted his flight from the sea-shore, and chased the

unfortunate monarch, with some faithful followers, to the

inaccessible mountain of Papua/ in the inland country

* The African laws of Justinian are illustrated by his German hiographer. (Cod.  
lib. 1. tit. 27. Novell. 36,37.131". Vit. Justinian, p.349—377.) .

t Monnf Papua is placed by d'Anville, (tom. 3. p. 92. and Tabttl. Imp. Rom.
Oc­

cident) near Hippo Regius and the sea ; yet this situation ill agrees with the
long

pursuit beypnd ljippo, and the words of Procopius, (lib. 2. c. 4.) iv tm;
Nmi/wiSib; %t­

L 2

