CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 22$

tempted to seduce the fidelity of Almondar, while he

called from the extremities of the earth, the nations of

-/Ethiopia and Scythia to invade the dominions of his ri­  
val. But the aid of such allies was distant and precari­

ous, and the discovery of this hostile correspondence

justified the complaints of the Goths and Armenians,

who implored, almost at the same time, the protection

of Chosroes. The descendants of Arsaces, who were

still numerous in Armenia, had been provoked to assert

the last relics of national freedom and hereditary rank;

and the ambassadors of Vitiges had secretly traversed the

empire to expose the instant, and almost inevitable, dan­

ger of the kingdom of Italy. Their representations were

uniform, weighty, and effectual. "We stand before

your throne, the advocates of your interest as well as of

our own. The ambitious and faithless Justinian aspires

to be the sole master of the world. Since the endless

peace which betrayed the common freedom of mankind,

that prince, your ally in words, your enemy in actions,

has alike insulted his friends and foes, and has filled the

earth with blood and confusion. Has he not violated

the privileges of Armenia, the independence of Colchos,

and the wild liberty of the Tzanian mountains? Has

he not usurped, with equal avidity, the city of Bosphorus

on the frozen Maeotis, and the vale of palm-trees on the

shores of the Red sea? The Moors, the Vandals, the

Goths, have been successively oppressed, and each nation

has calmly remained the spectator of their neighbour's

ruin. Embrace, O king! the favourable moment; the

east is left without defence, while the armies of Justinian

and his renowned general are detained in the distant re­

gions of the west. If you hesitate and delay, Belisarius

and his victorious troops will soon return from the Tiber

to the Tigris, and Persia may enjoy the wretched conso­

lation of being the last devoured."11 By such arguments,

P I have blended, in a short speech, the two orations of the Arsacides of
Armenia

and the Gothic amhassadors. Procopius, in his public history, feels, and makes
us

feel that Justinian was the true author of the war. (Persic lib. 2. c. 2. 3.)

