CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Jl 1

Mountains, and the Girdle of the Earth. The sides of

the hills were productive of minerals; and the iron forges,*

for the purpose of war, were exercised by the Turks, the

most despised portion of the slaves of the great khan of

the Geougen. But their servitude could only last till a

leader, bold and eloquent, should arise, to persuade his

countrymen, that the same arms, which they forged for

their masters, might become, in their own hands, the

instruments of freedom and victory. They sallied from

the mountain ;b a sceptre was the reward of his advice;

and the annual ceremony, in which a piece of iron was

heated in the fire, and a smith's hammer was successively

handled by the prince and his nobles, recorded for ages

the humble profession and rational pride of the Turkish

nation. Bertezena, their first leader, signalized their

valour and his own in successful combats against the

neighbouring tribes; but when he presumed to ask in

marriage the daughter of the great khan, the insolent

demand of a slave and a mechanic was contemptuously

rejected. The disgrace was expiated by a more noble

alliance with a princess of China % and the decisive battle,

which almost extirpated the nation of the Geougen, es­

tablished in Tartary the new and more powerful empire

of the Turks. They reigned over the north; but they

confessed the vanity of conquest, by their faithful attach­

ment to the mountain of their fathers. The royal en­

campment seldom lost sight of mount Altai, from whence

the river Irtish descends to water the rich pastures of the

The mountain is endowed with a sensitive action in its roots or nerves; and
their vi­

bration, at the command of God, is the cause of earthquakes. (D'H«rbelot, p.
230,

231.)

a The Siberian iron is the best and most plentiful in the world ; and in the
southern

parts, above sixty mines are now worked by the industry of the Russians.
(Strablen-

berg, Hist, of Siberia, p. 342, 387. Voyage en Siberie, par l'Abbe Chappe
d'Auter-

oche, p. 603. 608. edit! in 12mo. Amsterdam, 1770.) The Turks offered iron for

sate; yet the Roman amhassadors, wi#i strange obstinaoy, persisted in
believing that

it was all a trick, and that their country produced none. (Menander in
Excerpt. Leg.

p. 152.)

b Of Irgana-kon. (Abulghazi Khan, Hist. Genealogique des Tartars, P. 2. 0. 5.

p. 71—77. c. 15. p. 155.) The tradition of the Moguls, of the four hundred and

fifty years which they passed in the mountains, agrees with the Chinese
periods of

the history of the Huns and Turks, (De Guignes, tom. 1. part 2. p. 376.) and
the

twenty generations, from the restoration to Zingis.

