decline and fall [chap. XL-

laws, and the legacies of the deceased friends, on the

philosophic chairs of Athens. Epicurus bequeathed to

his disciples the gardens which he had purchased for

eighty minae, or two hundred and fifty pounds, with a

fund sufficient for their frugal subsistence and monthly

festivals ;h and the patrimony of Plato afforded an annual

rent, which, in eight centuries, was gradually increased

from three to One thousand pieces of gold.' The schools

of Athens were protected by the wisest and most virtuous

of the Roman princes. The library, which Hadrian

founded, was placed in a portico, adorned with pictures,

statues, and a roof of alabaster, and supported by one

hundred columns of Phrygian marble. The public sa­

laries were assigned by the generous spirit of the Anto-

nines; and each professor, of politics, of rhetoric, of the

Platonic, the Peripatetic, the Stoic, and the Epicurean

philosophy, received an annual stipend of ten thousand

drachmae, or more than three hundred pounds sterling.11

After the death of Marcus, these liberal donations, and the

privileges attached to the thrones of science, were abo­

lished and revived, diminished and enlarged: but some

vestige of royal bounty may be found under the success­

ors of Constantine; and their arbitrary choice of an

unworthy candidate might tempt the philosophers of

Athens to regret the days of independence and poverty.1

It is remarkable, that the impartial favour of the Anto-

nines was bestowed on the four adverse sects of philoso­

phy, which they considered as equally useful, or at least

as equally innocent. Socrates had formerly been the

glory and the reproach of his country; and the first les-

b See the testament of Epicurus inDiogen. Laert. lib. 10. segm. 16—20. p. 611,

612. A single epistle (ad Familiarcs, 13.1.) displays the injustice of the
Areopagus,

the fidelity of the Epicureans, the dexterous politeness of Cicero, and the
mixture of

contempt and esteem with which the Roman senators considered the philosopby
and

philosophers of Greece.

1 Damascius, in Vit. Isidor. apud Photium, cod. 242. p. 1054.

k See Lncian (in Eunech. tom. 2. p. 350—359. edit. Reitz); Philostratus (in
Vit.

Sophist. lib. 2. c. 2.), and Dion Cassius, or Xiphilin, (lib. 71. p. 1195.)
with their

editors Du Soul, Olearius, and Reimar, and, above all, Salmasius (ad Hist.
August.

p. 72.) A judicious philosopher, (Smith's Weallh of Nations, vol. 2. p.
340—374.)

prefers the free-contributions of the students toa lixed stipend forlhe
professor.

1 Brncker, Hist. Ciit. 1'hilosoph. tom. 2. p. 310, &c.

