DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

quisite misery of violating his promise and deserting his

friend.

In the succeeding campaign, Belisarius was again sent

against the Persians: he saved the east, but he offended

Theodora, and perhaps the emperor himself. The ma­

lady of Justinian had countenanced the rumour of his

death: and the Roman general, on the supposition of

that probable event, spoke the free language of a citizen

and a soldier. His colleague Buzes, who concurred in

the same sentiments, lost his rank, his liberty, and his

health, by the persecution of the empress: but the dis^

grace of Belisarius was alleviated by the dignity of his

own character, and the influence of his wife, who might

wish to humble, but could not desire to ruin, the part­

ner of her fortunes. Even this removal was coloured by

the assurance, that the sinking state of Italy would be

retrieved by the single presence of the conqueror. But

no sooner had he returned, alone and defenceless, than

a hostile commission was sent to the east, to seize his

treasures and criminate his actions: the guards and ve­

terans, who followed his private banner, were distributed

among the chiefs of the army, and even the eunuchs

presumed to cast lots for the partition of his martial do­

mestics. When he passed with a small and sordid reti­

nue through the streets of Constantinople, his forlorn

appearance excited the amazement and compassion of

the people. Justinian and Theodora received him with

cold ingratitude; the servile crowd with insolence and

contempt; and in the evening he retired with trembling

steps to his deserted palace. An indisposition, feigned

or real, had confined Antonina to her apartment; and

she walked disdainfully silent in the adjacent portico,

while Belisarius threw himself on his bed, and expected,

in an agony of grief and terror, the death which he had

so often braved under the walls of Rome. Long after

sun-set a messenger was announced from the empress;

he opened with anxious curiosity the letter which con-

