CHAP. XLlJ Of THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

moved that guarded the entrance of the port; the gates

were thrown open, and the people, with acclamations of

gratitude, hailed and invited their Roman deliverers.

The defeat of the Vandals, and the freedom of Africa,

were announced to the city on the eve of St. Cyprian,

when the churches were already adorned and illuminated

for the festival of the martyr, whom three centuries of

superstition had almost raised to a local deity. The

Arians, conscious that their reign had expired, resigned

the temple to the Catholics, who rescued their saint from

profane hands, performed the holy rites, and loudly pro­

claimed the creed of Athanasius and Justinian. One

awful hour reversed the fortunes of the contending par­

ties. The suppliant Vandals, who had so lately indulged

the vices of conquerors, sought an humble refuge in

the sanctuary of the church; while the merchants of

the east were delivered from the deepest dungeon of the

palace by their affrighted keeper, who implored the pro­

tection of his captives, and shewed them, through an

aperture in the wall, the sails of the Roman fleet. Af­

ter their separation from the army, the naval commanders

had proceeded with slow caution along the coast, till

they reached the Hermaean promontory, and obtained

the first intelligence of the victory of Belisarius. Faith­

ful to his instructions, they would have cast anchor about

twenty miles from Carthage, if the more skilful seamen

had not represented the perils of the shore, and the

signs of an impending tempest. Still ignorant of the re­

volution, they declined, however, the rash attempt of

forcing the chain of the port; and the adjacent harbour

and suburb of Mandracium were insulted only by the ra­

pine of a private officer who disobeyed and deserted his

leaders. But the imperial fleet, advancing with a fair

wind, steered through the narrow entrance of the Go-

letta, and occupied, in the deep and capacious lake of

Tunis, a secure station about five miles from the capital.'

1 The neighbourhood of Carthage, the sea, the land, and the rivers, are
changed

