CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 453

bishops, the impression was erased by the zeal and elo­

quence of the Magi; if he was armed with philosophic

indifference, he accommodated his belief, or rather his

professions, to the various circumstances' of an exile and .. . -

a sovereign. The imaginary conversion of the king of

Persia was reduced to a local and superstitious veneration

for Sergius,1 one of the saints of Antioch, who heard his

prayers and appeared to him in dreams; he enriched his

shrine with offerings of gold and silver, and ascribed to

his invisible patron, the success of his arms, and the

pregnancy of Sira, a devout Christian, and the best be­

loved of his wives." The beauty of Sira or Schirin,*

her wit, her musical talents, are still famous in the his­

tory, or rather in the romances of the east: her own

name is expressive, in the Persian tongue, of sweetness

and grace; and the epithet of Parvis alludes to the charms

of her royal lover. Yet Sira never shared the passion

which she inspired, and the bliss of Chosroes was tor­

tured by a jealous doubt, that while he possessed her per­

son, she had bestowed her affections on a meaner fa­

vourite/ •1

While the majesty of the Roman name was revived in Pride, po-

* Sergius and his companion Bacchus, who are said to have suffered in the perse­  
cution of Maximian, obtained divine kouoor in France, Italy, Constantinople,
and the

east. Their tomb at Rasaphe was famous for miracles, and that Syrian town
acquired

the more honourable name of Sergiopolis. Tillemont, Mem. Socles, torn. 5. p.
491

—496. Butler's Saints, vol. 10. p. 155.

"Evagriua, (lib. 6. c. 21.) and Theophylact, (lib. 5. c. 13,14.) hare
preserved the

original letters of Chosroes, written in Greek, signed with his own hand, and
after­

ward inscribed on crosses and tables of gold, which were deposited in the
church of

Sergiopolis. They had been sent to the bishop of Antioch, as primate of Syria.
,

* The Greeks only describe her as a Roman by birth, a Christian by religion; but  
•he is represented as the daughter of the emperor Maurice in the Persian and
Turkish

Romances, which celebrate the love of Khosrou for Schirin, of Schirin'fur
Ferhad, the

most beautiful youth of the east. D'Herbelot, Biblioth. Orient, p. 789. 997,
998.

T The whole series of the tyranny of Hormouz, the revolt of Bahrain, and the
flight

and restoration of Chosroes, is related by two contemporary Greeks—more
concisely

by Kvagrius, (lib. 6. c. 16—19.)—and most diffusely by Theophylaot Simocatta:

(lib. 3. c. 6—18. lib. 4. c. 1—16* lib. 5. c. 1—15.) succeeding compilers,
Zonaras

and Cedrenus, can only transcribe and abridge. The Christian Arabs Eutycliius,
(An-

nal. torn. 2. p. 200—20G.) and Ahnlpharagius, (Dynast, p. 96—98.) appear to
have

oousulted some particular memoirs. The great Persian historians of the
fifteenth cen­

tury, Mirkhond and Khondemir, are only known to ine by the imperfect extracts
of

Shikard, (Tarikh, p. 150—155.) Texeira, or rather Stevens, (Hist, of Persia,
p. 182

—186.) a Turkish MS. translated by the abbe Fourmont, (Hist, de l'Acadeinie
des

Inscriptions, torn. 7. p. S25—334.) and d'Herbelot, (aux mots, Hormouz, p.
457—

459. Bahrain, p. 174. Khosrou Parviz, p. 996.) Were I perfectly satisfied of
their

authority, I could wish these oriental materials had been more copious.

