DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI1I.

halted in order of battle, apprehensive of treachery or

-ambush ; but the troops of Bessas, with their leader, had  
already escaped; and when the king was pressed to

disturb their retreat, he prudently replied, that no sight

could be more grateful than that of a flying enemy. The

Patricians, who were still possessed of horses, Decius, Ba-

silius, &c. accompanied the governor; their brethren,

among whom Olybrius, Orestes, and Maximus are

named by the historian, took refuge in the church of St.

Peter; but the assertion, that only five hundred persons

remained in the capital, inspires some doubt of the fideli­

ty either of his narrative or of his text. As soon as

daylight had displayed the entire victory of the Goths,

their monarch devoutly visited the tomb of the prince

of the apostles; but while he prayed at the altar, twenty-

.five soldiers, and sixty citizens, were put to the sword in

the vestibule of the temple. The archdeacon Pelagius"

stood before him with the gospels in his hand. "O

Lord, be merciful to your servant." "Pelagius (said

Totila with an insulting smile), your pride now conde­

scends to become a suppliant." "I am a suppliant,

(replied the prudent archdeacon) God has now made us

your subjects, and as your subjects we are entitled to your

clemency." At his humble prayer, the lives of the Ro­

mans were spared; and the chastity of the maids and

matrons was preserved inviolate from the passions of the

hungry soldiers. But they were rewarded by the free­

dom of pillage, after the most precious spoils had been

reserved for the royal treasury. The houses of the

senators were plentifully stored with gold and silver;

and the avarice of Bessas had laboured with so much

guilt and shame for the benefit of the conqueror. In

this revolution, the sons and daughters of Roman con-

"During the long exile, and after the death of Vigilius, the Roman church was
go­

verned, at first by the archdeacon, and at length (A. D. 555.) by the pope
Pelagius,

who was not thought guiltless of the sufferings of his predecessor. See the
original

lives of the popes under the name of Anastasius, (Muratori, Script. Rer.
Italicarum,

tom. 3.' p. 1. 130, 131.) who relates several curious incidents of the sieges
of Rome

and the wars of Italy.

