CHAP. Xhll.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 221

his restoration. The peop lewas deluded and inflamed

hy the fanaticism of Ma2dak,p who asserted the commu­

nity of women,q and the equality of mankind, whilst he

appropriated the richest lands and most beautiful females

to the use of his sectaries. The view of these disorders,

"which had been fomented by his laws and example/ em­

bittered the declining age of the Persian monarch; and

his fears were increased by the consciousness of his de­

sign to reverse the natural and customary order of suc­

cession, in favour of his third and most favoured son, so

famous under the names of Chosroes and Nushirvan.

To render the youth more illustrious in the eyes of the

nations, Kobad was desirous that he should be adopted

by the emperor Justin: the hope of peace inclined the

Byzantine court to accept this singular proposal; and

Chosroes might have acquired a specious claim to the

inheritance of his Roman parent. But the future mis­

chief was diverted by the advice of the quaestor Proclus:

a difficulty was started, whether the adoption should be

performed as a civil or military ritethe treaty was

abruptly dissolved; and the sense of this indignity sunk

deep into the mind of Chosroes, who had already ad­

vanced to the Tigris on his road to Constantinople.

His father did not long survive the disappointment of

his wishes; the testament of their deceased sovereign

was read in the assembly of the nobles; and a powerful

faction, prepared for the event, and regardless of the

priority of age, exalted Chosroes to the throne of Persia.

He filled that throne during a prosperous period of forty-

P See d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient, p. 568.929.) Hyde, (de Religione Vet.
Pent-

rum, c. 21. p. 290, 291.) Pocock, (Specimen Hist. Arab. p. ?0, 71.) Eutychius,

(Annul, tom. 2. p. 176.) Texeira. (in Stevens, Hist, of Persia, lib. 1. c.34.)

1 The fame of the new law for the community of women was soon propagat­

ed in Syria (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, tom. 3. p. 402.) and Greece. (Procop.
Persic,

lib. 1. c. 5.)

'He offered his own wife and sister to the prophet; but the prayers of
Nushirvan

saved his mother, and the indignant monarch never forgave the humiliation to
which

his filial piety had stooped: pedes tuos deosoulatus, (said he to Mazdak)
cujus factor

adhuc nares occupat. (Pocock, Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 71.)

* Procopius, Persic. lib. 1. c. 11. Was not Proclus over-wise? Was not the  
danger imaginary ?—The excuse, at least, was injurious to a nation not
ignorant of

letters: cv y^appaa-i oi (3«£&xpoi touc waiSa; iroiouv-rai aXX* faXuv cxEui.
Whelher any

modi of adoption was practised in Persia 1 much doubt.

