CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 75

been justly accused by the voice of the people and of

posterity: but public discontent is credulous; private

malice is bold; and a lover of truth will peruse with a

suspicious eye the instructive anecdotes of Procopius.

The secret historian represents only the vices of Justinian,

and those vices are darkened by his malevolent pencil.

Ambiguous actions are imputed to the worst motives:

error is confounded with guilt, accident with design, and

laws with abuses: the partial injustice of a moment is

dexterously applied as the general maxim of a reign of

thirty-two years: the emperor alone is made responsi­

ble for the faults of his officers, the disorders of the times,

and the corruption of his subjects; and even the calami­

ties of nature, plagues, earthquakes, and inundations, are

imputed to the prince of the demons, who had mischiev­

ously assumed the form of Justinian.p

After this precaution, I shall briefly relate the anec­

dotes of avarice and rapine, under the following heads.

—[. Justinian was so profuse that he could not be libe­

ral. The civil and military officers, when they were PenJeiwn

admitted into the service of the palace, obtained a hum- sau"B!"

ble rank and a moderate stipend; they ascended by

seniority to a station of affluence and repose; the an­

nual pensions, of which the most honourable class was

abolished by Justinian, amounted to four hundred thou­

sand pounds; and this domestic economy was deplored

by the venal or indigent courtiers as the last outrage on

the majesty of the empire. The posts, the salaries of

physicians, and the nocturnal illuminations, were objects

of more general concern; and the cities might justly

complain, that he usurped the municipal revenues which

had been appropriated to these useful institutions. Even

the soldiers were injured; and such was the decay of

military spirit, that they were injured with impunity.

Centenaries of gold were brought by strong arms into the hippodrome.—

"Dehita genitoris persolut, caata recepit."

» The Anecdotes (c. 11—14. 18. 20. 30.) supply many faots and more com­

plaints.

G 2

