DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

place was safe or sacred from their depredations ; to gra­

tify either avarice or revenge, they profusely spilt the

blood of the innocent; churches and altars were polluted

by atrocious murders; and it was the boast of the assas­

sins, that their dexterity could always inflict a mortal

wound with a single stroke of their dagger. The disso­

lute youth of Constantinople adopted the blue livery of

disorder; the laws were silent, and the bonds of society

were relaxed; creditors were compelled to resign their

obligations; judges to reverse their sentence; masters

to enfranchise their slaves; fathers to supply the extra­

vagance of their children; noble matrons were prosti­

tuted to the lust of their servants; beautiful boys were

torn from the arms of their parents; and wives, unless

they preferred a voluntary death, were ravished in the

presence of their husbands." The despair of the greens,

who were persecuted by their enemies, and deserted by

the magistrate, assumed the privilege of defence, perhaps

of retaliation: but those who survived the combat were

dragged to execution, and the unhappy fugitives escaping

to woods and caverns, preyed without mercy on the so­

ciety from whence they were expelled. Those ministers

of justice who had courage to punish the crimes, and to

brave the resentment of the blues, became the victims of

their indiscreet zeal: a prefect of Constantinople fled

for refuge to the: holy sepulchre; a count of the east was

ignominiously whipped, and a governor of Cilicia was

hanged, by the order of Theodora, on the tomb of two

assassins whom he had condemned for the murder of his

groom, and a daring attack upon his own life.b An as­

piring candidate may be tempted to build his greatness

on the public confusion, but it is the interest as well as

duty of a sovereign to maintain the authority of the

* A wife (says Procopins), who was seized and almost ravished by a blue coat,  
threw herself into the Bosphorus. The hishops of the second Syria (Aleman. p.
26.)

deplore a simitar saicide, the guilt or glory of female chastity, and name the
heroine.

*> The doubtful credit of Procopias (Anecdot. c. 17.) is supported by the less par­  
tial Evagrius, who confirms the fact, and specifies the names. The tragic fate
of the

prefect of Constantinople is related by John Malala. (tom. H. p. 139.)

