DECLtNfi AND FALL [eHAf. JttUt.

respected his genius, his virtue, attd even the laudable

motive which had urged the servant of Justinian to de-*

ceive and reject them. They had lost their king (an

inconsiderable loss), their capital, their treasures, the pro­

vinces from Sicily to the Alps, and the military force of

two hundred thousand barbarians, magnificently equip­

ped with horses and arms. Yet all was not lost, as long

as Pavia was defended by one thousand Goths, inspired

by a sense of honour, the love of freedom, and the me­

mory of their past greatness. The supreme command

was unanimously offered to the brave Uraias; and it was

in his eyes alone that the disgrace of his uncle Vitiges

could appear as a reason of exclusion. His voice in­

clined the election in favour of Hildibald, whose personal

merit was recommended by the vain hope that his kins­

man Theudes, the Spanish monarch, would support the

common interest of the Gothic nation. The success of

his arms in Liguria and Venetia seemed to justify their

choice; but he soon declared to the world, that he was

incapable of forgiving or commanding his benefactor.

The consort of Hildibald was deeply wounded by the

beauty, the riches, and the pride of the wife of Uraias;

and the death of that virtuous patriot excited the indig­

nation of a free people. A bold assassin executed their

sentence by striking off the head of Hildibald in the midst

of a banquet: the Rugians, a foreign tribe, assumed the

privilege of election; and Totila, the nephew of the late

king, was tempted, by revenge, to deliver himself and

the garrison of Trevigo into the hands of the Romans.

But the gallant and accomplished youth was easily per­

suaded to prefer the Gothic throne before the service of

Justinian; and as soon as the palace of Pavia had been

purified from the Rugian usurper, he reviewed the na­

tional force of five thousand soldiers, and generously

undertook the restoration of the kingdom of Italy.

The successors of Belisarius, eleven generals of equal

rank, neglected to crush the feeble and disunited Goths,

