CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

any certain account of his departure from the port of

Carthage. Such unsuspecting loyalty removed the ap­

prehensions of Justinian: envy was silenced and inflamed

by the public gratitude ; and the third Africanus obtained

the honours of a triumph, a ceremony which the city of

Constantinople had never seen, and which ancient Rome,

since the reign of Tiberius, had reserved for the auspi­

cious arms of the Caesars.1 From the palace of Belisar

rius, the procession was conducted through the principal

streets to the hippodrome; and this memorable day

seemed to avenge the injuries of Genseric, and to ex­

piate the shame of the Romans. The wealth of nations

was displayed, the trophies of martial or effeminate lux­

ury; rich armour, golden thrones, and the chariots of

state which had been used by the Vandal queen; the

massy furniture of the royal banquet, the splendour of

precious stones, the elegant forms of statues and vases,

the more substantial treasure of gold, and the holy ves­

sels of the Jewish temple, which, after their long pere­

grination, were respectfully deposited in the Christian

church of Jerusalem. A long train of the noblest Van­

dals reluctantly exposed their lofty stature and manly

countenance. Gelimer slowly advanced: he was clad

in a purple robe, and still maintained the majesty of a

king. Not a tear escaped from his eyes, not a sigh was

heard; but his pride or piety derived some secret conso­

lation from the words of Solomon,11 which he repeatedly

pronounced, vanity ! vanity! all is vanity! In­

stead of ascending a triumphal car drawn by four horses

or elephants, the modest conqueror marched on foot at

the head of his brave companions; his prudence might

'After the title of imperator had lost the old military sense, and the Roman
aus­

pices were abolished by Christianity,(see La Bleterie, Mem. de i'Academie,
tom. 21.

p. 302—332.) a triumph might be given with less inconsistency to a private
general.

k If the Ecclesiastes be truly a work of Solomon, and not, like Prior's poem,
a

pious and moral composition of more recent times, in his name, and on the
subject of

his repentance. The latter is the opinion of the learned and free-spirited
Grotius ,

(Opp. Theolog. tom. 1. p. 258.) and indeed the Ecclesiastes and Proverbs
display a

larger compass of thought and experience than seem to belong either to a Jew
or a

king.

