CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

value; it has not yet been viewed by any mortal eye;

but the sight and the possession of this jewel are des­

tined for my friend." As soon as the curiosity and impa­

tience of Antonina were kindled, the door of a bed­

chamber was thrown open, and she beheld her lover,

whom the diligence of the eunuchs had discovered in his

secret prison. Her silent wonder burst into passionate ex­

clamations of gratitude and joy, and she named Theodora

her queen, her benefactress, and her saviour. The monk

of Ephesus was nourished in the palace with luxury and

ambition ; but, instead of assuming, as he was promised,

the command of the Roman armies, Theodosius expired

in the first fatigues of an amorous interview. The grief

of Antonina could only be assuaged by the sufferings of

her son. A youth of consular rank, and a sickly consti­

tution, was punished, without a trial, like a malefactor

and a slave: yet such was the constancy of his mind,

that Photius sustained the tortures of the scourge and

the rack, without violating the faith which he had sworn

to Belisarius. After this fruitless cruelty, the son of

Antonina, while his mother feasted with the empress,

was buried in her subterraneous prisons, which admitted

not the distinction of night and day. He twice escaped

to the venerable sanctuaries of Constantinople, the

churches of St. Sophia and of the Virgin: but his tyrants

were insensible of religion as of pity; and the helpless

youth, amidst the clamours of the clergy and people,

was twice dragged from the altar to the dungeon. His

third attempt was more successful. At the end of three

years, the prophet Zacharia, or some mortal friend, indi­

cated the means of an escape; he eluded the spies and

guards of the empress, reached the holy sepulchre of

Jerusalem, embraced the profession of a monk; and the

abbot Photius was employed, after the death of Justinian,

to reconcile and regulate the churches of Egypt. The

son of Antonina suffered all that an enemy can inflict:

her patient husband imposed on himself the more ex­

