CHAP. XLVI.} OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 49$

guilty or unfortunate general. The dispatches were

transmitted to Sarbar himself; and as soon as he read the

sentence of his own death, he dexterously inserted the .,•

names of four hundred officers, assembled a military

council, and asked the cadarigan, whether he was pre­

pared to execute the commands of their tyrant? The

Persians unanimously declared, that Chosroes had for­

feited the sceptre; a separate treaty was concluded with

the government of Constantinople; and if some consi­

derations of honour or policy restrained Sarbar from join­

ing the standard of Heraclius, the emperor was assured,

that he might prosecute, without interruption, his de­

signs of victory and peace.

. Deprived of his firmest support, and doubtful of the Hi«third

_ _ . _ . 11 expedition,

fidelity of his subjects, the greatness of Chosroes was a. d. 6z7.

still conspicuous in its ruins. The number of five hun­

dred thousand may be interpreted as an oriental meta­

phor, to describe the men and arms, the horses and ele­

phants, that covered Media and Assyria against the in­

vasion of Heraclius. Yet the Romans boldly advanced

from the Araxes to the Tigris, and the timid prudence of

Rhazates was content to follow them by forced marches

through a desolate country till he received a peremptory

mandate to risk the fate of Persia in a decisive battle.

Eastward of the Tigris, at the end of the bridge of Mo-

sal, the great Nineveh had formerly been erected the

city, and even the ruins of the city, had long since disap­

peared :k the vacant space afforded a spacious field for the

operations of the two armies. But these operations are

neglected by the Byzantine historians, and, like the au-

'Ctesias (apud Diodnr. Sicul. torn. 1. lib. 2. p. 115. edit. Wesseling,
assigns four

hundred and eight; stadia (perhaps only thirty-two miles) for the
circumference of

Nineveh. Jonas talks of three days' journey: the one hundred and twenty
thousand

persons described by the prophet as incapable of discerning their right band
from

their left, may afford about seven hundred thousand persons of all ages for
the inha­

bitants of that ancient capital, (Goguet, Origincs des Loix, &c. torn. 3. part
1. p. 92,

93.) which ceased to exist six hundred years before Christ. The western suburb

still subsisted, and is mentioned under the name of Mosul in the first age of
the Ara­

bian caliphs.

k Niebuhr (Voyage en Arable, &c. torn. 2. p. 286.) passed over Nineveh without

perceiving it. He mistook for a ridge of hills the old rampart of brick or
earth. It

is said to have been one hundred feet high, flanked with fifteen hundred
towers, each

of the height of two hundred feet.

