44 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

ratified by the affection or the fears of his uncle. After

some time the langour of mind and body, to which he

was reduced by an incurable wound in his thigh, indis­

pensably required the aid of a guardian. He summoned

the patriarch and senators; and in their presence so­

lemnly placed the diadem on the head of his nephew,

who was conducted from the palace to the circus, and

saluted by the loud and joyful applause of the people.

The life of Justin was prolonged about four months,

but from the instant of this ceremony, he was considered

as dead to the empire, which acknowledged Justinian,

in the forty-fifth year of his age, for the lawful sovereign

of the east.1 >

The reign From his elevation to his death, Justinian governed

of Justinian, . °' ,

a. d. 527, the Roman empire thirty-eight years seven months and

Af'iJ.565, thirteen days. The events of his reign, which excite

not. 14. our curious attention by their number, variety, and im­

portance, are diligently related by the secretary of Beli-

sarius, a rhetorician whom eloquence had promoted to

the rank of senator, and prefect of Constantinople. Ac­

cording to the vicissitudes of courage or servitude, of

character favour or disgrace, Procopiusm successively composed the

ries of Pro- history, the panegyric, and the satire, of his own times,

oopias. The eight books of the persian, Vandalic, and Gothic

wars," which are continued in the five books of Agathais,

deserve our esteem as a laborious and successful imita­

tion of the Attic, or at least of the Asiatic writers of an­

cient Greece. His facts are collected from the personal

1 The reign of the elder Justin may be found in the three Chronicles of
Marcellinns,

Victor, and John Malala, (torn. 2. p. 130—150.) the last of whom (in spite of
Hody,

Prolegom. no. 14.39. edit. Oxon.) lived soon after Justinian, (Jortin's
Remarks,&c.

vol. 4. p. 383.) in the Ecclesiastical History of Evagrius, (lib. 4. c. 1—3.
9.) and

the Excerpta of Theodorus, (Lector, no. 37.) and in Cedreuus, (p. 362—366.)
and

Zonaras, (lib. 14. p. 58—61.) who may pass for an original.

m See the characters of Procopius and Agathias in La Mothe le Vayer, (torn. 8.
p.

144—174.) Vosias, (de Historicis Gracis, lib. 2. c. 22.) and Fabricius. (
Bibliot. Gcsec.

lib. 5. c. 5. torn. 6. p. 248—278.) Their religion, an honourable problem,
betrays

occasional conformity, with a secret attachment to Paganism and philosophy.

n In the seven first books, two Persic, two Vandalic, and three Gothic,
Procopius

has borrowed from Appian the divisions of provinces and wars : the eighth
hook, though:

it bears the name of Gothic, is a miscellaneous and general supplement down to
the

spring of the year 553, from whence it is continued by Agathias till 559.
(Pagi>

Critica, A. D. 579. no, 5.)

