CHAP. XLV.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 421

Modena, the grand dutchy of Tuscany, and a large por­

tion of the ecclesiastical state from Perugia to the Adriatic.

The dukes, and at length the princes, of Beneventum

survived the monarchy, and propagated the name of the

Lombards. From Capua to Tarentum, they reigned

near five hundred years over the greatest part of the pre­

sent kingdom of Naples.0

In comparing the proportion of the victorious and the Language

vanquished people, the change of language will afford ™ra™f"he

the most probable inference. According to this standard Lombards-

it will appear, that the Lombards of Italy, and the Visi­

goths of Spain, were less numerous than the Franks or

Burgundians; and the conquerors of Gaul must yield, in

their turn, to the multitude of Saxons and Angles who

almost eradicated the idioms of Britain. The modern

Italian has been insensibly formed by the mixture of na­

tions; the awkwardness of the barbarians in the nice ma­

nagement of declensions and conjugations, reduced them

to the use of articles and auxiliary verbs; and many new

ideas have been expressed by Teutonic appellations. Yet

the principal stock of technical and familiar words is

found to be of Latin derivation ;p and if we were suffici­

ently conversant with the obsolete, the rustic, and the

municipal dialects of ancient Italy, we should trace the

origin of many terms which might, perhaps, be rejected

by the classic purity of Rome. A numerous army con­

stitutes but a small nation, and the powers of the Lom­

bards were soon diminished by the retreat of twenty thou­

sand Saxons, who scorned a dependant situation, and re­

turned, after many bold and perilous adventures, to their

native country.q The camp of Alboin was of formidable

0 I have described llie slate of Italy from the excellent Dissertation of
Beretti.

Giannone (Istoria Civile, torn. 1. p. 374—387.) has followed the learned
Camilla

Pelegrini in the geography of the kingdom of Naples. After the loss of the
true

Calabria, the vanity of the Greeks substituted that name instead of the more
ignoble

appellation of Brutlium; and the change appears to have taken place before the
lime

of Charlemagne. (Eginard, p. 75.)

'Madei,(Verona Ulustrata, part 1. p. 310—321.) and Mnratori, (Antichita Ilali-

aie, torn.2. Dissertazione 32, 33. p. 71—365.) baveasserted the native claims
of (he

l'alian idiom: tho former with enthusiasm, the latter with discretion; both
with learn­

ing, ingenuity, and truth.

« Paul, deGest. Langobard. lib. 3. c. 5—7.

