DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.V.

annals of the second Justin1 are marked with disgrace

abroad and misery at home. In the west the Roman

empire was afflicted by the loss of Italy, the desolation

of Africa, and the conquests of the Persians. Injustice

prevailed both in the capital and the provinces; the rich

trembled for their property, the poor for their safety,

the ordinary magistrates were ignorant or venal, the oc­

casional remedies appear to have been arbitrary and vio­

lent, and the complaints of the people could no longer

be silenced by the splendid names of a legislator and a

conqueror. The opinion which imputes to the prince

all the calamities of his times, may be countenanced by

the historian as a serious truth or a salutary prejudice.

Yet a candid suspicion will arise, that the sentiments of

Justin were pure and benevolent, and that he might have

filled his station without reproach, if the faculties of his

mind had not been impaired by disease, which deprived

the emperor of the use of his feet, and confined him to

the palace, a stranger to the complaints of the people and

the vices of the government. The tardy knowledge of

his own impotencedetermined him to lay down the weight

of the diadem; and in the choice of a worthy substitute,

he shewed some symptoms of a discerning and even mag­

nanimous spirit. The only son of Justin and Sophia

died in his infancy: their daughter Arabia was the wife

of Baduarius,a superintendant of the palace, and after­

ward commander of the Italian armies, who vainly as­

pired to confirm the rights of marriage by those of adop­

tion. While the empire appeared an object of desire,

Justin was accustomed to behold with jealousy and ha-

* The original authors for the reign of Justin the Younger, are Evagrias, Hist.  
Eccles. lib, 5. o. 1—12. Theophanes, ir. Chronograph, p. 204—210. Zonaras,
torn. 2.

lib. 14. p. 70—72. Cedrenus, in Compend. p. 388—392.

11 Dispositorque novus sacne Baduarius aula;.

Successor soceri mox factus Cura palali. Corippus.

Baduarius is enumerated among the descendants and allies of the house of
Justinian.

A family of noble Venetians (Casa Badoero) built churches and gave dnkes to
the

republic as early as the ninth century; and if their descent be admitted, no
kings in

Europe can produce a pedigree so ancient and illustrious. Ducange, Forn,
Byzatilin.

p. 99. Amelot de la Houssaye, Gouvernement dc Venise, lorn. 2. p. 555.

