nO DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI1I

the Romans, by the vague reports of the fleets and ar­

mies which were hastening to their relief from the extre­

mities of the east. They derived more rational comfort

from the assurance that Belisarius had landed at the

port; and, without numbering his forces, they firmly

relied on the humanity, the courage, and the skill of

their great deliverer.

Attempt of The foresight of Totila had raised obstacles worthy

iu. q£ suci1 gn antagonist. Ninety furlongs below the city,

in the narrowest part of the river, he joined the two banks

by strong and solid timbers in the form of a bridge; on

which he erected two lofty towers, manned by the bravest

of his Goths, and profusely stored with missile weapons

and engines of offence. The approach of the bridge and

towers was covered by a strong and massy chain of iron;

and the .chain, at either end, on the opposite side of the

Tiber, Was defended by a numerous and chosen detach­

ment of archers. But the enterprise of forcing these

barriers, and relieving the capital, displays a shining ex­

ample of the boldness and conduct of Belisarius. His

cavalry advanced from the port along the public road,

to awe the motions and distract the attention of the

enemy. His infantry and provisions were distributed in

two hundred large boats; and each boat was shielded by

a high rampart of thick planks, pierced with many small

holes for the discharge of missile weapons. In the front,

two large vessels were linked together to sustain a float­

ing castle, which commanded the towers of the bridge,

and contained a magazine of fire, sulphur, and bitumen.

The whole fleet, which the general led in person, was

laboriously moved against the current of the river. The

chain yielded to their weight, and the enemies who

guarded the banks were either slain or scattered. As

soon as they touched the principal barrier, the fire-ship

was instantly grappled to the bridge; one of the towers,

with two hundred Goths, was consumed by the flames;

the assailants shouted the victory; and Rome was saved,

