CHAP. XLIII.] 6F THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

without applying a part of the spoil to his private emolu­

ment. The hero had escaped the sword of the Barba­

rians, but the dagger of conspiracy' awaited his return.

In the midst of wealth and honours, Artaban, who had

chastised the African tyrant, complained of the ingrati­

tude of courts. He aspired to Praejecta, the emperor's

niece, who wished to reward her deliverer; but the im­

pediment of his previous marriage was asserted by the

piety of Theodora. The pride of royal descent was irri­

tated by flattery; and the service, in which he gloried,

had proved him capable of bold and sanguinary deeds.

The death of Justinian was resolved, but the conspira­

tors delayed the execution till they could surprise Belisa-

rius disarmed, and naked, in the palace of Constanti­

nople. Not a hope could be entertained of shaking his

long-tried fidelity; and they justly dreaded the revenge,

or rather justice, of the veteran general, who might

speedily assemble an army in Thrace to punish the as­

sassins, and perhaps to enjoy the fruits of their crime.

Delay afforded time for rash communications and honest

confessions: Artaban and his accomplices were condemn­

ed by the senate, but the extreme clemency of Justinian de­

tained them in the gentle confinement of the palace, till

he pardoned their flagitious attempt against his throne,

and life. If the emperor forgave his enemies, he must

cordially embrace a friend whose victories were alone re­

membered, and who was endeared to his prince by the

recent circumstance of their common danger. Belisa-

rius reposed from his toils, in the high station of general

of the east and count of the domestics; and the older

consuls apd patricians respectfully yielded the precedency

of rank to the peerless merit of the first of the Romans."

The first of the Romans still submitted to be the slave of

'This conspiracy is related by Procopias (Gothic. lib. 3. c. 31, 32.) with
such free­

dom and candour, that the liberty of the Anecdotes gives him nothing to add.

« The honours of Belisarius are gladly commemorated by his secretary. (Procop.

Goth. lib. 3. c. 35. lib. 4. c. 21.) The title of Zrjai-nyo; is ill
translated, at least in

this instance, by praefectus prsrtorio; and to a military character, magister
militum is

more proper and applicable. (Ducange, Gloss. Gnec. p. 1468,1459.)

