DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

he had enjoyed them without guilt; he might resign

them without a sigh, and calmly disdain the impotent

malice of his enemies, who had left him happiness, since

they had left him virtue. From the earth, Boethius

ascended to heaven in search of the supreme good; ex­

plored the metaphysical labyrinth of chance and destiny,

of prescience and free-will, of time and eternity; and

generously attempted to reconcile the perfect attributes

of the Deity, with the apparent disorders of his moral

and physical government. Such topics of consolation,

so obvious, so vague, or so abstruse, are ineffectual to

subdue the feelings of human nature. Yet the sense of

misfortune may be diverted by the labour of thought;

and the sage who could artfully combine, in the same

work, the various riches of philosophy, poetry, and elo­

quence, must already have possessed the intrepid calm­

ness, which he affected to seek. Suspense, the worst of

evils, was at length determined by the ministers of death,

who executed, and perhaps exceeded, the inhuman man­

date of Theodoric. A strong cord was fastened round

the head of Boethius, and forcibly tightened, till his eyes

almost started from their sockets; and some mercy may

be discovered in the milder torture of beating him with

clubs till he expired/ But his genius survived to diffuse

a ray of knowledge over the darkest ages of the Latin

world; the writings of the philosopher were translated

by the most glorious of the English kings,8 and the third

emperor of the name of Otho removed to a more ho­

nourable tomb the bones of a Catholic saint, who, from

his Arian persecutors, had acquired the honours of mar­

tyrdom, and the fame of miracles.11 In the last hours of

f He was executed in Agro Calventiano (Calvenzanp, between Marignano and

Pavia), Anonym. Vales, p. 7J3, by order of Eusebius coont of Hcinnm or Pavia.

The place of his confinement is styled the baptistery, an edifice and name
peculiar to

cathedrals. It is claimed by the perpetual tradition of the church of Pavia.
The

tower of Boethius subsisted till the year 1584, and the draught is yet
preserved.

(Tiraboschi, torn. 3. p. 47. 48.) .

s See the Biographica Britanuioa, Alfred, torn. 1. p. 80. second edition. The

work is still more honourable, if performed under the learned eye of Alfred by
his

foreign and domestic doctors. For the reputation of Boethius in the middle
ages,

consult Bruckerl. (Hist. Crit. Philosopb. torn. 3. p. 565, 566.)

* The inscription on bis new tomb was composed by the preceptor of Otho the

