CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

nian or Ulpian, which the reformer had proscribed, were

deemed unworthy of future notice; the' twelve tables

and praetorian edict insensibly vanished, and the monu^

ments of ancient Rome were neglected or destroyed by

the envy and ignorance of the Greeks. Even the Pan­

dects themselves have escaped with difficulty and danger

from the common shipwreck, and criticism has pronoun-i­

ced, that all the editions and manuscripts of the west are de­

rived from one Original." It was transcribed at Constan­

tinople the beginning of the seventh century,' was succes­

sively transported by the accidents of war and commerce

to Amalphi,' Pisa," and Florence," and is now deposited

as a sacred relic7 in the ancient palace of the republic*

of the civil law, Mucins, Brutus, and Manillas, extant volumina, scripta
Manflii mo-

suumenta; that of some old republican lawyers, haec versantar eorma scripta
inter

manus hominum. Eight of the Augustan sages were reduced to a compendium : of

Cascellius, scripta not extaot sed unus liber, &c.: of Trehatius, minus
frequentantur:

of Tubero, libri parnm grati sunt. Many quotations in the Pandects are derived
from

books which Tribonian never saw; and in the long period from the seventh to
the

thirteenth oentury of Rome, the apparent reading of the moderns successively
depends

on the knowledge and veracity of their predecessors.

r All, in several instances, repeat the errors of the scribe and the
transpositions of

:Some leaves in the Florentine pandects. This faot, if it be true, is
decisive. Yet

the Pandects are quoted by Ivo of Chartres (who died in 1117); by Theobald,

archhishop of Canterbury, and by Vacarius, our first professor, in the year
1140. (Sel-

den ad Fletam, c. 7. tom. 2. p. 1030—1085.) Have our British JV1SS. of the
Pan­

dects been collated?

* See the description of this original in B re nek roan, (Hist. Pandect. Florent. lib.  
jt. c. 2, 3; p. 4—17. and lib. 2.) ' Politian, an enthusiast, revered it as
the authentip

standard of Justinian himself; (p. 407, 408.) hat this paradox is refuted by
the abbre­

viations of the Florentine MS. (lib. 2. c. 3. p. 117—130.) It is composed of
two

quarto volumes with large margins, on a thin parchment, and the Latin
characters be­

tray the hand of a Greek scribe.

t Brenckman, at the end of his history, has inserted two dissertations on the
re­

public of Amaiphi, and the Ptsan war in the year 1185, &o.

u TJie discovery of the pandects at Amalphi <(A, D. 13.37) is 6rst noticed (in

1501) by Ludovicus Bologninus, (Brenckman, lib. 1. c. 11. p. 73,74. lib. 4. c.
2. p.

417—425.) on the faith ofaPis&n chronicle, j(p. 409, 410.) without a name or a
date.

The whole story, though, unknown to the twelth century, embellished by
ignorant

ages, and suspected by rigid criticism, is not, however, destitute of much
internal

prohahility, (lib. 1# c. 4-i—8.. p. J7—50.) Tne kiber Pandectaram of Pisa was
un­

doubtedly consulted in the fourteeuth century by the great BarLolns. (p. 406,
407.

See lib. J. c. 9. p. 50—02.)

x Pisa was taken by the Florentines in the year 1406; and in 1411 the Pandects

were transported to the capital. These events are authentic and famous.

y They were now bound in purple, deposited in a rich casket, and shewn to
cWrious

travellers by the monks and magistrates hareheaded, and with lighted tapers.
(Brenck­

man, lib. 1. c. 10—12. p. 62—93.)

z After the collations of Politian, Bologninus, and Antoninus Augustinns, and
the

splendid edition of the Pandects by Taorellns (in 1551), Heury Brenckman, a
Dutch­

man, undertook a pilgrimage to Florence, where he employed several years in
tfie

study of a single manuscript. His Historia Pandectarum Florentinorum,
(TJtrecnt,

,1722, in quarto,) though a monument of industry, is a small portion of his
original

design. ^ , •" . t!

VOL. V. 2 A

