DECLINE AND FAIL [CHAP. XL1Y.

malice of an incendiary. After the previous ceremony

of whipping, he himself was delivered to the flames ; and

in this example alone our reason is tempted to approve

the justice of retaliation. 5. Judicial perjury. The

corrupt and malicious witness was thrown headlong from

the Tarpeian rock to expiate his falsehood, which was

rendered still more fatal by the severity of the penal laws,

and the deficiency of written evidence. 6. The corrup­

tion of a judge, who accepted bribes, to pronounce an ini­

quitous sentence. 7. Libels and satires, whose rude

strains sometimes disturbed the peace of an illiterate city.

The author was beaten with clubs, a worthy chastise­

ment, but it is not certain that he was left to expire

under the blows of the executioner.*1 8. The nocturnal

mischief of damaging or destroying a neighbour's corn.

The criminal was suspended as a grateful victor to Ceres.

But the Sylvan deities were less implacable, and the extir­

pation of a more valuable tree was compensated by the

moderate fine of twenty-five pounds of copper. Q. Ma­

gical incantations; which had power, in the opinion of

the Latin shepherds, to exhaust the strength of an ene­

my, to extinguish his life, and remove from their seats

his deep-rooted plantations. The cruelty of the twelve

tables against insolvent debtors still remains to be told;

and I shall dare to prefer the literal sense of antiquity, to

the specious refinements of modern criticism/ After

the judicial proof or confession of the debt, thirty days

of grace were allowed before a Roman was delivered into

the power of his fellow-citizens. In this private prison,

twelve ounces of rice were his daily food; he might be

tarch in Romnlo, tom. 1. p. 57.) Baring the Cimbric, P. Malleolus was guilty
of

the first matricide, (liy. Epitom. lib. 68.)

'1 Horace talks of the furmidine fastis; (lib. 2. epist. 2. 154.) hat Cicero
de Re­

publics (lib. 4. apud Augustin. de Civitat. Dei, 9. 6. in Fragment. Philosoph.
tom. 3.

p. 393. edit Olivet) affirms that the decemvirs made libels a capital offence
: cam per-

pancas res capite faxissent—perpaucus!

r Bynkershoek (Observat. Juris Rom. lib. 1. c. 1. in Opp. tom. 1. p. 9—11.)
la­

bours to prove that the creditors divided not the body, but the price of the
insolvent

debtor. Yet his interpretation is one perpetual harsh metaphor; nor can he
surmount,

the Roman authorities of Quiutilian, Cacciiius, Favonius, and Terlullian. See
Aulus

Geltias, Noct. Attie. SI.

