HQ DECLINE AND PALt- [GHAP. Xhl.

a strong gale from the north-east, and finally cast anchor

at the promontory of Caput Vada, about five days jour­

ney to the south of Carthage.1*

Beiiurias If Gelimer had been informed of the approach of the

lands on * * .

the coast of enemy, he must have delayed the conquest of Sardinia,

September, for the immediate defence of his person and kingdom.

A detachment of five thousand soldiers, and one hun­

dred and twenty galleys, would have joined the remaining

forces of the Vandals; and the descendant of Genseric

might have surprised and oppressed a fleet of deep-laden

transports, incapable of action, and of light brigantines,

that seemed only qualified for flight. Belisarius had se­

cretly trembled when he overheard his soldiers, in the

passage, emboldening each other to confess their appre­

hensions: if they were once on shore, they hoped to

maintain the honour of their arms; but if they should be

attacked at sea, they did not blush to acknowledge, that

they wanted courage to contend at the same time with

the winds, the waves, and the barbarians.q The know^

ledge of their sentiments decided Belisarius to seize the

first opportunity of landing them on the coast of Africa,

and he prudently rejected, in a council of war, the pro­

posal of sailing with the fleet and army into the port of

Carthage. Three months after their departure from

Constantinople, the men and horses, the arms and mili­

tary stores, were safely disembarked, and five soldiers

were left as a guard on board each of the ships, which

were disposed in the form of a semicircle. The re­

mainder of the troops occupied a camp on the sea-shore,

which they fortified, according to ancient discipline, with

a ditch and rampart; and the discovery of a source of

fresh water, while it allayed the thirst, excited the super­

stitious confidence of the Romans. The next morning,

P The Caput vada of Procopius, (where Jastinian afterward founded a city—de

Edific. lib. 6. c. 6.) is the promontory of Ammon in Strabu, the Brachodes of
Ptoler

my, the Cnpaudia of the moderns, a long narrow slip that runs into the sea.
(Shaw's

Travels, p. 111.)

i A centurion of Mark Antony expressed, though in a more manly strain, the

same dislike to the sea and to naval comhats. (Plutarch in Antonio, p. 1730.
edit.

Hen. Stepb.)

