-430 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

the statues of the city; that by the command of the bar­

barian, the Palatine library was reduced to ashes; and

that the history of Livy was the peculiar mark of his ab­

surd and mischievous fanaticism. The writings of Gre­

gory himself reveal his implacable aversion to the monu­

ments of classic genius: and he points his severest cen­

sure against the profane learning of a bishop, who taught

the art of grammar, studied the Latin poets, and pro­

nounced with the same voice the praises of Jupiter and

those of Christ. But the evidence of his destructive rage

is doubtful and recent; the temple of peace, or the the­

atre of Marcellus, have been demolished by the slow ope­

ration of ages, and a formal proscription would have

multiplied the copies of Virgil and Livy in the countries

which were not subject to the ecclesiastical dictator.*

The tombs Like Thebes, or Babylon, or Carthage, the name of

of the apo- Rome might have been erazed from the earth, if the city

•ties. had not been animated by a vital principle, which again

restored her to honour and dominion. A vague tradi­

tion was embraced, that two Jewish teachers, a tent-

maker and a fisherman, had formerly been executed in

the circus of Nero, and at the end of five hundred years

their genuine or fictitious relics were adored as the Pal­

ladium of Christian Rome. The pilgrims of the east and

west resorted to the holy threshold; but the shrines of

the apostles were guarded by miracles and invisible ter­

rors; and it was not without fear that the pious Catholic

approached the object of his worship. It was fatal to

touch, it was dangerous to behold, the bodies of the

saints; and those who, from the purest motives, pre­

sumed to disturb thereposeof the sanctuary, wereaffright-

ed by visions, or punished with sudden death. The un­

reasonable request of an empress, who wished to deprive

the Romans of their sacred treasure, the head of St. Paul,

i Bayle, (Dictionaire Critique, tom. 2. p. 598, 599.) in a very good article
of

Gregoire I. has qnoteil for the buildings and statues, Platina in Gregorio I.
for tb«

I'atatine library, John of Salisbury, (de Nugis Curialium, lib. 2. c. 26.) and
for liivy,

Antoninus of Florence; the oldest of the three lived in the twelfth century.

