DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

was in Capricorn, another comet appeared to follow in

the Sagitary: the size was gradually increasing; the

head was in the east, the tail in the west, and it re­

mained visible about forty days. The nations, who gazed

with astonishment, expected wars and calamities from

their baleful influence: and these expectations were

abundantly fulfilled. The astronomers dissembled their

ignorance of the nature of these blazing stars, which they

affected to represent as the floating meteors of the air;

and few among them embraced the simple notion of Se­

neca and the Chaldeans, that they are only planets of a

longer period and more eccentric motion/ Time and

science have justified the conjectures and predictions of

the Roman sage: the telescope has opened new worlds

to the eyes of astronomers ;g and, in the narrow space of

history and fable, one and the same comet is already found

to have revisited the earth in seven equal revolutions of

five hundred and seventy-five years. The Jirst* which

ascends beyond the Christian era one thousand seven

hundred and sixty seven years, is coeval with Ogyges,.

the father of Grecian antiquity. And this appearance

explains the tradition which Varro has preserved, that

under his reign the planet Venus changed her colour,

size, figure, and course; a prodigy without example

either in past or succeeding ages.' The second visit in

the year ] 193, is darkly implied in the fable of Electra

the seventh of the Pleiads, who have been reduced to six

since the time of the Trojan war. That nymph, the

'Seneca's seventh Look of Natural Questions displays, in the theory of comets,
a

philosophic miud. Yet should we not too candidly confound a vague prediction,

a veniet tempus, &o. with the merit of real discoveries.

t Astronomers may study Newton and Halley. I draw my humble science from

the article Com ftp, in the French Encyclopedic by M. d'Alembert.

b Whiston, the honest, pious, visionary Whistnn,bad fancied, for the era of
Noah's

food (two thousand two hundred and forty-two years before Christ), a prior
appari­

tion of the same comet which drowned the earth with its tail.

1 A dissertation of Freret (Memoires de l'Academie defl Inscriptions, torn.
10. p.

357—377.) affords a happy union of philosophy and erudition. The phenomenon

in the time of Ogyi;eswas preserved by Varro, (apud Augustin. de Civilate Dei,
31.

8.) who quotes Castor, Dion of Naples, and Adrastusof Cyzicus—nnbiles
malheaia-

tici. The two subsequent periods are preserved by the Greek m vtliologistJ and
tha

spurious books of Sibylline verses.

