424 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

the boldest and most tractable falconsthey were tamed

and educated by the roving inhabitants always on horse­

back and in the field. This favourite amusement of our

ancestors was introduced by the barbarians into the Ro­

man provinces; and the laws of Italy esteem the sword

and the hawk as of equal dignity and importance in the

hand of a noble Lombard.b

Dress and So rapid was the influence of climate and example,

niamage. ^g Lombards of the fourth generation surveyed

with curiosity and affright the portraits of their savage

forefathers.0 Their heads were shaven behind, but the

shaggy locks hung over their eyes and mouth, and a long

beard, represented the name and character of the nation.

Their dress consisted of loose linen garments, after the

fashion of the Anglo-Saxons, which were decorated, in

their opinion, with broad stripes of variegated colours.

The legs and feet were clothed in long hose, and open

sandals; and even in the security of peace a trusty sword

was constantly girt to their side. Yet this strange ap­

parel, and horrid aspect, often concealed a gentle and

generous disposition; and as soon as the rage of battle

had subsided, the captives and subjects were sometimes

surprised by the humanity of the victor. The vices of

the Lombards were the effect of passion, of ignorance,

of intoxication; their virtues are the more laudable, as

they were not affected by the hypocrisy of social man­

ners, nor imposed by the rigid constraint of laws and edu­

cation. I should not be apprehensive of deviating from

* Particularly the gerfaut or gyrfalcon, of the size of a small eagle. See the ani­  
mated description of M. de Buftbn, Hist. Naturelle, tom. 16. p. 239, &c.

b Script. Rerum Italicaram, tom. 1. part 2. p. 129. This is the sixteenth law
of

the emperor Lewis the Pious. His father Charlemagne had falconers in his
household

as well as huntsmen. (Memoires sur l'Ancienne Chevalerie, par M. de St.
Palaye,

tom. 3. p. 175.) I observe in the laws of Rotharis a more early mention of the
ai t of

hawking, (no. 322.) and in Gaul, in the fifth century, it is celebrated by
Sidonius Apol-

linaris among the talents of Avitus. (202—207.)

c The epitaph of Droctulf (Paul, lib. 3. c 19.) may be applied to many of his

countrymen:

Terrihilis visa facies, sed corda benignus

'Longaque robusto pectore harhafuit.

The portraits of the old Lomhards might still be seen in the palace of Monza,
twelve

miles from Milan, which had been founded or restore.: by queen Theudelinda.
(lib.

4. 22, 23.) See Muratori, tom. 1. dissertaz. 23. p. 500.

