C HAP. XLVI.] Op THE ROMAN EMPIRE,

of the naked and hungry inhabitants. Singidunum, at

the distance of fifty miles, experienced a more cruel fate:

the buildings were rased, and the vanquished people

were condemned to servitude and exile. Yet the ruins of

Sirmium are no longer visible; the advantageous situa­

tion of Singidunum soon attracted a new colony of Scla-

vonians, and the conflux of the Save and Danube is still

guarded by the fortifications of Belgrade, or the White

City, so often and so obstinately disputed by the Chris­

tian and Turkish arms." From Belgrade to the walls of

Constantinople, a line may be measured of six hundred

miles: that line was marked with flames and with blood;

the horses of the Avars were alternately bathed in the

Euxine and the Adriatic; and the Roman pontiff alarm­

ed by the approach of a more savage enemy/was reduced

to cherish the Lombards as the protectors of Italy. The

despair of a captive, whom his country refused to ran­

som, disclosed to the Avars the intention and practice of

military engines;° but in the first attempts, they were

rudely framed and awkwardly managed; and the resist­

ance of Diocletianopolis and Beraea, of Philippopolis and

Adrianople, soon exhausted the skill and patience of the

besiegers. The warfare of Baian was that of a Tartar,

yet his mind was susceptible of a humane and generous

sentiment: he spared Anchialus, whose salutary waters

had restored the health of the best beloved of his wives;

and the Romans confess, that their starving army was

fed and dismissed by the liberality of a foe. His empire

extended over Hungary, Poland, and Prussia, from the

mouth of the Danube to that of the Oder ;b and his new

e See d'Anville, in the Memoires tie. l'Acad. des Inscriptions, tom. 28. p.
412-—

443. The Sclavonic name of Belgrade is mentioned in the tenth century by
Constan-

tine Porpbyrogenitus ; the Latin appellation of Alha Graeca is used by the
Pranks tife

the beginning of the ninth, (p. 414.)

f Baron. Annal. Eccles. A. D. 600. no. 1. Paul Warnefrid (lib. 4. c. 38.)
relates'

their irrnption into Frinli.and (c. 39.) the captivity of his ancestors,
alxiut A. 1). 6:i^.

. The Sclavi traversed the Hadriatic, cum multitudine navium, and made a
descent in

the territory of Siiiontmn. (c. 47.)

S Even the helepolis, or moveable turret. Theophylaot, lib. 2. 16, 17.

b The arms and alliances of tho clmgan reached to the neighbourhood of a
western

sea, fifteen months'journey from Constantinopte. The emperor Maurice conversed

VOL. V. 1 H

