378 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

asses. But the same denomination of money was re­

duced, in three centuries, from a pound to the weight

of half an ounce; and the insolence of a wealthy Roman

indulged himself in the cheap amusement of breaking

and satisfying the law of the twelve tables. Veratius ran

through the streets striking on the face the inoffensive

passengers, and his attendant purse-bearer immediately

silenced their clamours by the legal tender of twenty-five

pieces of copper, about the value of one shilling..' The

equity of the praetors examined and estimated the distinct

merits of each particular complaint. In the adjudication

of civil damages, the magistrate assumed a right to con­

sider the various circumstances of time and place, of age

and dignity, which may aggravate the shame and suffer­

ings of the injured person; but if he admitted the idea

of a fine, a punishment, an example, he invaded the pro­

vince, though, perhaps, he supplied the defects, of the

criminal law.'

The execution of the Alban dictator, who was dis­

membered by eight horses, is represented by Livy as the

first and the last instance of Roman cruelty in the pu­

nishment of the most atrocious crimes." But this act of

justice, or revenge, was inflicted on a foreign enemy

in the heat of victory, and at the command of a single

Serena man. The twelve tables afforded a more decisive proof

tweirs of the national spirit, since they were framed by the

tM"*' wisest of the senate, and accepted by the free voices ot

the people; yet these laws, like the statutes of Draco,1

are written in characters of blood.™ They approve the

inhuman and unequal principle of retaliation; and the

1 Auhis Gellius (Noct. Attic. 20. 1.) borrowed his story from the Commentaries
of

Q. Labeo on the twelve tables.

* The narrative of Livy (1.28.) is weighty and solemn. At tu dictis Alhaoe ma-  
neres is a harsh reflection, unwortby of Virgil's humanity. (jEneid, 8. 643.)
Heyne,

with his usual good taste, observes that the subject was too horrid for the
shield of

iEneas. (tom. 3. p. 229.)'

1 The age of Draco (Olympiad 39.1.) is fixed by Sir John Marsham (Canon Chro-

nicus, p. 593—596.) and Corsini. (Fasti Attici. tom. 3. p: 62.) For his laws,
sea

the writers on the goverument of Athens, Sigonius, Meursias, Potter, &c.

m The eighth, de delictis, of the twelve tables is delineated by Gravina.

p' 292,293. with a Commentary, p. 214—230.) Aulus Gellius (20.1.) and the"

latio Leg um Mosaicarum et Romanarum aflbrd much original information.

Punish

meats.

