CHAP. XLII.] OF fHE ROMAN EMPIRE. 233

Assyria the pleasures of a Greek capital. By the mu­

nificence of the royal founder, a liberal allowance was

assigned to these fortunate exiles; and they enjoyed the

singular privilege of bestowing freedom on the slaves

whom they acknowledged as their kinsmen. Palestine,

and the holy wealth of Jerusalem, were the next objects

that attracted the ambition, or rather the avarice, of Chos- ■ .

roes. Constantinople, and the palace of the Caesars, no

longer appeared impregnable or remote; and his aspir­

ing fancy already covered Asia Minor with the troops,

and the black sea with the navies, of Persia.

These hopes might have been realized, if the con- Defence of

queror of Italy had not been seasonably recalled to the BMiMrftu'

defence of the east.' While Chosroes pursued his am- A"D"iiu

bitious designs on the coast of the Euxine, Belisarius at

the head of an army without pay or discipline, encamp­

ed beyond the Euphrates, within six miles of Nisibis.

He meditated, by a skilful operation, to draw the Per­

sians from their impregnable citadel, and improving his

advantage in the field, either to intercept their retreat,

or perhaps to enter the gates With the flying barbarians.

He advanced one day's journey on the territories of Per­

sia, reduced the fortress of Sisaurane, and sent the go­

vernor, with eight hundred chosen horsemen, to serve

the emperor in his Italian wars. He detached Arethas

and his Arabs, supported by twelve hundred Romans, to

pass the Tigris, and to ravage the harvests of Assyria, a

fruitful province, long exempt from the calamities of war.

But the plans of Belisarius were disconcerted by the un-

tractable spirit of Arethas, who neither returned to the

camp, nor sent any intelligence of his motions. The

Roman general was fixed in anxious expectation to the

same spot; the time of action elapsed, the ardent sun of

Mesopotamia inflamed with fevers the blood of his Eu­

ropean soldiers; and the stationary troops and officers of

r In the public history of Procopius, (Persic. lib. 2. c. 16. 18—21. 21—28.)
unci

with some slight exceptions, we may reasonably shot our ears against the
malevolent

whisper of the Anecdotes, (c. 2, 3. with the notes, as usual, of Alomaunus.)

VOL. V. R

