480 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

a safer conference with a more honourable foe, who, be­

fore Heraclius descended from his galley, saluted with re-

He solicits verence and pity the majesty of the purple. The friendly

offer of Sain the Persian general, to conduct an embassy

tp the presence of the great king, was accepted with the

warmest gratitude, and the prayer for pardon and peace

was humbly presented by the praetorian prefect, the pre­

fect of the city, and one of the first ecclesiastics of the

patriarchal church/ But the lieutenant of Chosroes had

fatally mistaken the intentions of his master. "It was

not an embassy (said the tyrant of Asia), it was the per­

son of Heraclius, bound in chains, that he should have

brought to the foot of my throne. I will never give peace

to the emperor of Rome till he has abjured his crucified

God, and embraced the worship of the sun." Sain was

flayed alive, according to the inhuman 'practice of his

country; and the separate and rigorous confinement of

the ambassadors, violated the laws of nations and the faith

of an express stipulation. Yet the experience of six years

at length persuaded the Persian monarch to renounce

the conquest of Constantinople, and to specify the an­

nual tribute or ransom of the Roman empire: a thou­

sand talents of gold, a thousand talents of silver, a thou­

sand silk robes, a thousand horses, and a thousand vir­

gins. Heraclius subscribed these ignominious terms, but

the time and space which he obtained to collect such

treasures from the poverty of the east, was industriously

employed in the preparations of a bold and desperate

attack.

Hi» pre- Of the characters conspicuous in history, that of He-

fo'w'ar"* raclius is one of the most extraordinary and inconsistent.

a. d. 621. In £rgt an^ iast years Df a iong reign, the emperor

appears to be the slave of sloth, of pleasure, or of super­

stition, the careless and impotent spectator of the public

calamities. But the languid mists of the morning and

c Some original pieces, such as the speech or letter of the Roman amhassadors,

(p. 386—388.) likewise constitute the merit of the Paschal, Chronicle, which
wai>

composed, perhaps at Alexandria, under the reign of Heracliut. - <

