CHAP. XLIV,] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 36Q

petuate in each family a just and virtuous mediocrity;

till female blandishments insensibly triumphed; and

every salutary restraint was lost in the dissolute great­

ness of the republic. The rigour of the decemvirs was

tempered by the equity of the praetors. Their edicts

restored emancipated and posthumous children to the

rights of nature: and upon the failure of the agnats,

they preferred the blood of the cognats to the name of

the Gentiles, whose title and character were insensibly

covered with oblivion. The reciprocal inheritance of

mothers and sons was established in the Tertullian and

Orphitian decrees by the humanity of the senate. A

new and more impartial order was introduced by the

novels of Justinian, who affected to revive the jurispru­

dence of the twelve tables. The lines of masculine and

female kindred were confounded: the descending, as­

cending, and collateral series, was accurately defined;

and each degree, according to the proximity of blood

and affection, succeeded to the vacant possessions of a

Roman citizen.1

The order of succession is regulated by nature, or at tntrodoo-

least by the general and permanent reason of the law- ln.erty <>r

giver; but this order is frequently violated by the arbi-

trary and partial wills which prolong the dominion of the

testator beyond the grave.™ In the simple state of so­

ciety, this last use or abuse of the right of property is

seldom indulged: it was introduced at Athens by the laws

of Solon; and the private testaments of the father of a

family are authorized by the twelve tables. Before the

time of the decemvirs," a Roman citizen exposed his

sixty-five years of age) suassisscm, says old Cato. (de Senectute, c. 5.)
Aulas Gel-

Gas (7. 13/17. 6.) has saved some passages.

1 See the law of succession in the Institutes of Caius, (lib. 2. tit. 8. p.
130—144.)

and Justinian, (lib. 3. tit. 1—6. with the Greek version of Theophilus, p.
515—575.

588-r600.) the Pandects, (lib. 38. tit. 6—17.) the Code, (lib. 6. tit. 55—60.)
and

the Novels..(118.)

■ That succession was the rule, testament the exception, is proved by Taylor,

(Elements of Civil Law, p. 519—527.) a learned, rambling, spirited writer. In
the

second and third books the method of the Institutes is doubtless preposterous;
and

the chancellor Duquesseau (CEuvres, tom. 1. p. 275.) wishes his countrymen
Domat

in the place of Ti-ibooian. Yet covenants before successions is not surely the
natural

order of the oivil laws. ...'

« Prior examples of testaments are peihaps fabulous. At Athens a childless fa-

