304 ,. bECLINE AND PALt fjOHAP. XLIV.

property.

bis acts till he accomplished the full period of twenty-

five years. Women were condemned to the perpetual

tutelage of parents, husbands, or guardians \ a sex created

to please and obey was never supposed to have attained

the age of reason and experience. Such at least was the

stern and haughty spirit of the ancient law, which had

been insensibly mollified before the time of Justinian,

ti. op ;II. The original right of property can only be justified

Right of by the accident or merit of prior occupancy; and on

this foundation it is wisely established by the philoso­

phy of the civilians.7 The savage who hollows a tree,

inserts a sharp stone into a wooden handle, or applies a

string to an elastic branch, becomes in a state of nature

the just proprietor of the canoe, the bow, or the hatchet.

.The materials were common to all; the new form, the

produce of his time and simple industry, belongs solely to

himself. His hungry brethren cannot, without a sense

of their own injustice, extort from the hunter the game

of the forest overtaken or slain by his personal strength

and dexterity. If his provident care preserves and mul­

tiplies the tame animals, whose nature is tractable to the

arts of education, he acquires a perpetual title to the use

and service of their numerous progeny, which derives its

existence from him alone. If he incloses and cultivates

a field for their sustenance and his own, a barren waste is

converted into a fertile soil; the seed, the manure, the

labour, create a new value, and the rewards of harvest

are painfully earned by the fatigues of the revolving year.

In the successive states of society, the hunter, the shep­

herd, the husbandman, may defend their possessions by

two reasons which forcibly appeal to the feelings of the

human mind—that whatever they enjoy is the fruit of

their own industry ; and that every man who envies their

felicity, may purchase similar acquisitions by the exer-

J Institut. lib. 2. tit. 1, 2. Compare the pare and precise reasoning of Cain*

and Heineccius (lib. 2. tit. 1. p. 69—91.) with the loose prolixity of
Theophilm,

(p. 207—265.)The opinions of Uipian are presorted in the Fandects. (lib. 1.
tit. 8.

leg. 41. no. I.)

