152 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

of Justinian and his lieutenant: but a spirit of discord

and disaffection prevailed in Italy, and the Goths sup­

ported, with reluctance, the indignity of a female reign.*

Govern- The birth of Amalasontha, the regent and queen of

dMth"f Italy,' united the two most illustrious families of the bar-

Amaiason- barians. Her mother, the sister of Clovis, was descended

tha, queen 7'

of Italy, from the lone;-haired kings of the Merovingian race ;8

A. D. 522

-534. and the regal succession of the Amali was illustrated in  
the eleventh generation, by her father, the great Theo-

doric, whose merit might have ennobled a plebeian origin.

The sex of his daughter excluded her from the Gothic

throne; but his vigilant tenderness for his family and

his people discovered the last heir of the royal line,

whose ancestors had taken refuge in Spain; and the

fortunate Eutharic was suddenly exalted to the rank of

a consul and a prince. He enjoyed only a short time

the charms of Amalasontha, and the hopes of the suc­

cession; and his widow, after the death of her husband

and father, was left the guardian of her son Athalaric,

and the kingdom of Italy. At the age of about twenty-

eight years, the endowments of her mind and person

had attained their perfect maturity. Her beauty, which,

in the apprehension of Theodora herself, might have

disputed the conquest of an emperor, was animated by

manly sense, activity, and resolution. Education and

experience had cultivated her talents; her philosophic

studies were exempt from vanity; and, though she ex­

pressed herself with equal elegance and ease in the Greek,

the Latin, and the Gothic tongue, the daughter of The-

odoric maintained in her counsels a discreet and im­

penetrable silence. By a faithful imitation of the vir-

• Compare the different passages of Procopius. (Vandal, lib. 2. c. 5. Gothic.
lib. 1.

c. 3.)

f For the reign and character of Amalasontha, see Procopius (Gothic. lib. 1. c
8

—4. and Anecdot. c. 16. with the notes of Alemannns); Cassiodorus, Var. 8—11'

1.) and Jornandes. (de Rebus Geticis, c. 59. and De Successione Regnorum, in
Mu-

ratori.tom. 1. p. 241.)

s The marriage of Theodoric with Audefleda, the sister of Clovis, may be
placed

in the year 495, soon after the conquest of Italy, (de Buat, Hist, des
Peoples, tom.

9. p. 213.) The nuptials of Eutharic aud Amalasoutha were celebrated in 513.
(Cas-

siudor. in Chron. p. 453.)

