CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

Camillas, but of St. Peter, repulsed the barbarians from

their walls. But the relief was accidental, the danger

was perpetual and pressing: and the clergy and senate,

collecting the remains of their ancient opulence, a sum of

three thousand pounds of gold, dispatched the patrician

Pamphronius to lay their gifts and their complaints at

the foot of the Byzantine throne. The attention of the

court, and the forces of the east, were diverted by the

Persian war; but the justice of Tiberius applied the sub­

sidy to the defence of the city: and he dismissed the pa­

trician with his best advice, either to bribe the Lombard

chiefs, or to purchase the aid of the kings of France.

Notwithstanding this weak invention, Italy was still af­

flicted, Rome was again besieged, and the suburb of

Classe, only three miles from Ravenna, was pillaged and

occupied by the troops of a simple duke of Spoleto.

Maurice gave audience to a second deputation of priests

and senators; the duties and-the menaces of religion

were forcibly urged in the letters of the Roman pontiff;

and his nuncio, the deacon Gregory, was alike qualified

to solicit the powers either of heaven or of the earth. The

emperor adopted, with stronger effect, the measures of

his predecessor; some formidable chiefs were persuaded

to embrace the friendship of the Romans; and one of

them, a mild and faithful barbarian, lived and died in the

service of the exarch: the passes of the Alps were deli­

vered to the Franks; and the pope encouraged them to

violate, without scruple, their oaths and engagements to

the misbelievers. Childebert, the great-grandson of Clo-

vis, was persuaded to invade Italy by the payment of fifty

thousand pieces; but as he had viewed with delight some

Byzantine coin of the weight of one pound of gold, the

king of Austrasia might stipulate, that the gift should be

rendered more worthy of his acceptance, by a proper mix­

ture of these respectable medals. The dukes of the Lom­

bards had provoked by frequent inroads their powerful

neighbours of Gaul. As soon as they were apprehensive

