CHAP. XXXIX J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. £

distinguished by the female virtues of mildness and fi­

delity; she followed her husband in his exile, and after

his restoration Bhe implored his clemency in favour of

her mother. On the decease of Zeno, Ariadne, thedaugh-

ter, the mother, and the widow, of an emperor, gave her or Amuta-

hand and the imperial title to Anastasius, an aged do- JSJl^isj

mesticof the palace, who survived his elevation above f^"'

twenty-seven years, and whose character is attested by"

the acclamation of the people,—" Reign as you have

lived J"1

Whatever fear or affection could bestow, was pro- service and

fusely lavished by Zeno on the king of the Ostrogoths; TWom.

the rank of patrician and consul, the command of the ^J^*75

Palatine troops, an equestrian statue, a treasure in gold

and silver of many thousand pounds, the name of son,

and the promise of a rich and honourable wife. As long

as Theodoric condescended to serve, he supported with

courage and fidelity the cause of his benefactor: his ra­

pid march contributed to the restoration of Zeno; and

in the second revolt, the fValamirs, as they were called,

pursued and pressed the Asiatic rebels, till they left an easy

victory to the imperial troops.*1 But the faithful servant

was suddenly converted into a formidable enemy, who

spread the flames of war from Constantinople to the.

Adriatic; many flourishing cities were reduced to ashes,

and the agriculture of Thrace was almost extirpated by

the wanton cruelty of the Goths, who deprived their

captive peasants of the right hand that guided the

plough.' On such occasions, Theodoric sustained the

1 The contemporary histories of Malchns and Candidas ate lost; bnt some ex­

tracts or fragments have been saved by Fhotius, (78, 79. p. 100—102.)
Constantino

Porphyrogenitns, (Excerpt. Leg. p. 78—97.) and in various articles of the
Lexicon

of Suidas. The Chronicle of Marcellinns (Imago Historic) are originals for
the*

reigns of Zeno and Anastasins; and I most acknowledge, almost for the last
time,

my obligations to the large and accurate collections of Tillemont. (Hist, deS
Emp.

torn. 6. p. 472—652.)

* In ipsis congressionis luae foribns cessit invasor, cum prafugo per te sceptra red-  
deretttar de salute dubilanti. Ennodius then proceeds (p. 1596,1597. torn. 1.
Sir-

mond.) to transport his hero (on a flying dragon?) into ^Ethiopia, beyond the
tropin

of Cancer. The evidence of the Valesian Fragment, (p. 717.) Liberates, (Brev.

Eolych. c. 25. p. 118.) and Theophanes, (p. 12.) it more sober and rational.

1 This ernel practice is specially imputed to the Triarian Goths, less
barbarous,

