CHA#. XLIV.] OF THE- BOM AN EMPfRE. tit

spirit of a prince, who sold without shame his judgments

and his laws/ The charge of the secret historian is in­

deed explicit and vehement; but the sole instance,

which he produces, may be ascribed to the devotion as

well as to the avarice of Justinian, A wealthy bigot had

bequeathed his inheritance to the church of Emesa; and

its value was enhanced by the dexterity of an artist, who

subscribed confessions of debt and promises of payment'

with the names of the richest Syrians. They pleaded

the established prescription of thirty or forty years; but

their defence was overruled by a retrospective edict,

which extended the claims of the church to the term of

a century; an edict so pregnant with injustice and dis- v>?

order, that after serving this occasional purpose, it was5 ". \'

prudently abolished in the same reign.d If candour will • *■- *

aoquit the emperor himself, and transfer the corruption

to his wife and favourites, the suspicion of so foul a vice

must still degrade the majesty of his laws: and the advo*

eates of Justinian may acknowledge, that such levity,

whatsoever be the motive, is unworthy of a legislator

and a man,

Monarchs seldom condescend to become the preeep The in»u-

tors of their subjects; and some praise is due to Justi* a. d. sju,

nian, by whose command an ample system was reduced Nov"ai*

to a short and elementary treatise. Among the various

institutes of the Roman law," those of Caius' were the

most popular in the east and west; and their use may be

considered as an evidence of their merit. They wene

« Montesquieu, Consideration gar h Grandeur et la Decadence des Romains, fe,

$0. torn. 3. p. oftl. in 4to. Op this oocasien he throws aside the gown and
cap of a

president a Mortier. -

* IVocopius, Aoecdot. e. 28. A similar privilege was granted to the church of  
Borne. (Novel.'9.) For the general repeal of these mischievous indulgences,
See

novel. 111. and edict. V i

• Laotantius, in his Institutes of Christianity, an elegant and specioas work,
pro-

'poses to imitate the title and method of the civilians. Quidam prndtsntes et
arbitri

soquitatis Institationes Civilis Juris compositas ediderunt. (Institut. Divin.
lib. 1. c 1.}

- Such as Clpiau, Pad), Florentines, Marcian.

I The emperor Justinian calls him saum, though he died before the end of the
sa-

• ootid century. His Institutes are quoted by Servius, Boethias, Priician, &e.
and the

Epitome by Arrian is still extant; (see the prolegomena and notes to the
edition of

^Sehulting, in the Jurisprudents Ante-Justiuianea, Lugd, Bat. 1717.
Heineccius,

Hist. J. R. no. 313. Ludewig, iu Vit. Just. p. 199.)' • ■ • ■ .

2 A 2

