CHAP. XLII.] 6F trffe ttOMAN EMPIRE.

the table of Justinian, by the side of his master; arid

one thousand pounds of gold might be assigned for the

expense of his journey and entertainment. Yet the1re­

peated labours of Isdigune could procure only a partial

and imperfect truce, which was always purchased with

the treasures, and renewed at the solicitation, of the By­

zantine court. Many years of fruitless desolation elap­

sed before Justinian and Chosroes were compelled, by

mutual lassitude, to consult the repose of their declining

age. At a conference held on the frontier, each party,

without expecting to gain eredit, displayed the power,

the justice, and the pacific intentions of their respective

sovereigns; but necessity and interest dictated the trea­

ty of peace, which was concluded for a term of fifty years,

diligently composed in the Greek and Persian languages,

and attested by the seals of twelve interpreters. The

liberty of commerce and religion was fixed and defined;

the allies of the emperor and the great king were includ­

ed in the same benefits and obligations; and the most

scrupulous precautions were provided to prevent or de­

termine the accidental disputes that might arise on the

confines of two hostile nations. After twenty years of

destructive though feeble war, the limits still remained

without alteration; and Chosroes was persuaded to re­

nounce his dangerous claim to the possession or sove­

reignty of Colchos and its dependent states. Rich in

the accumulated treasures of the east, he extorted from

the Romans an annual payment of thirty thousand pieces

of gold; and the smallness of the sum revealed the dis­

grace of a tribute in its naked deformity. In a previous

debate, the chariot of Sesostris, and the wheel of fortune,

were applied by one of the ministers of Justinian, who

observed, that the reduction of Antioch, and some Syrian

cities, had elevated beyond measure the vain and ambi­

tious spirit of the barbarian. "You are mistaken, (re­

plied the modest Persian): the king of kings, the lord of

mankind, looks down with contempt on such petty ac-

s 2

