CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 97

which was sanctified, for the first time, by the presence

of a fighting bishop. Their disorderly numbers were

vanquished in the plains of Phrygia by the valour and

discipline of the Goths; but a war of six years almost

exhausted the courage of the emperor.11 The Isaurians A- d.49«

° r 498.

retired to their mountains; their fortresses were succes­

sively besieged and ruined; their communication with

the sea was intercepted; the bravest of their leaders died

in arms; the surviving chiefs, before their execution,

were dragged in chains through the Hippodrome; a co­

lony of their youth was transplanted into Thrace, and

the remnant of the people submitted to the Roman go­

vernment. Yet some generations elapsed before their

minds were reduced to the level of slavery. The popu­

lous villages of mount Taurus were filled with horsemen

and archers; they resisted the imposition of tributes,

but they recruited the armies of Justinian; and his civil

magistrates, the proconsul of Cappadocia, the count of

Isauria, and the praetors of Lycaonia and Pisidia, were

invested with military power to restrain the licentious

practice of rapes and assassinations.'

If we extend our view from the tropic to the mouth of Fortifica-

the Tanais, we may observe on one hand, the precautions emp5ref th°

of Justinian to curb the savages of ^Ethiopia,11 and on g°mint£eto

the other, the long walls which he constructed in Cri-,|ie Persian

maea for the protection of his friendly Goths, a colony

of three thousand shepherds and warriors.1 From that

h The Isaurian war and the triumph of Anastasius are briefly and darkly repre­

sented by John Matala; (tom. 2. p. 106, 107.) Evagrius; (lib. 3. o. 35.)
Theophanes

(p. 118—120.) and the Chronicle of Marcellinus.

1 Fortes ea regio (says Justinian) viroshabet, neo in nllo differt ab Isauria,
though

Procopius (Persic. lib. 1. c. 13.) marks an essential difference between their
military

character ; yet in former times the Lycaonians and Pisidians had defended
their li­

berty against the great king. (Xenophon. Anahasis, lib. 3. c. 2.) Justinian
introduces

some false and ridiculous erndition of the ancient empire of the Pisidians,
and Ly-

caon, who, after visiting Rome (long before jJEneas), gave a name and people
to Ly­

caonia. (Novell. 24, 25. 27. 30.)

* See Procopius, Persio. lib. 1.e. 19. The altar of national concord, of annual  
sacrifice and oaths, which Diocletian had erected in the isle of Elephantine,
was de­

molished by Justinian with less policy than zeal. .'

1 Procopius de Edificiis, lib. 3. c. 7. Hist. lib. 8. c. 3, 4. These
unamhitious

Goths had refused to follow the standard of Theodoric. As late as the
fifteenth and

sixteenth century, the name and nation might be discovered between Cafla and
the

straits of Azoph, (d'Anville Memoiret) do ('Academic, toiu. 30. p. 240.) They
well

