CHAP. XLVI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 471

a daughter of the emperor. It was more difficult to

trust the fidelity of Crispus, whose recent services were

recompensed by the command of the Cappadocian army.

His arrogance soon provoked, and seemed to excuse the

ingratitude of his new sovereign. In the presence of the

senate, the son-in-law of Phocas was condemned to em­

brace the monastic life; and the sentence was j ustified by

the weighty observation of Heraclius, that the man who

had betraved his father, could never be faith ful to his friend.h

Even after his death the republic was afflicted by the chosroes

crimes of Phocas, which armed with a pious cause the the Roman

most formidable of her enemies. According to the AinDr.e603,

friendly and equal forms of the Byzantine and Persian &c-

courts, he announced his exaltation to the throne; and

his ambassador Lilius, who had presented him with the

heads of Maurice and his sons, was the best qualified to

describe the circumstances of the tragic scene.' How­

ever it might be varnished by fiction or sophistry, Chos­

roes turned with horror from the assassin, imprisoned the

pretended envoy, disclaimed the usurper, and declared

himself the avenger of his father and benefactor. The

sentiments of grief and resentment which humanity would

feel, and honour would dictate, promoted, on this oc­

casion, the interest of the Persian king; and his inte­

rest was powerfully magnified by the national and re­

ligious prejudices of the Magi and satraps. In a

strain of artful adulation, which assumed the language

of freedom, they presumed to censure the excess of

his gratitude and friendship for the Greeks; a nation

with, whom it was dangerous to conclude either peace or

alliance ; whose superstition was devoid of truth and jus­

tice, and who must be incapable of any virtue, since they

h See the tyranny of Phocas and the elevation of Heraclius, in Chron. Paschal,

p. 380—383. Theophanes, p. 242—250. Nicephoros, p. 3—7. Cedrenns, p. 404

—407. Zonaras, ton). 2. lib. 14. p. 80—82.

'Theiiph)lact, lib. 8. o. 15. The life of Manrice was composed about the year

628, (lib. 8. c. 13.) by Theophylact Simocatta, ex-prefeol, a native of Egypt.
Pho-

tias, who gives an ample extract of the work, (Cod. 65. p. 81—100.) genlly re­

proves the affectation and allegory of the style. His preface is a dialogue
between

Philosophy and History; tbey seat themselves under a plane-tree, and the
latter

touches her lyre.

