438 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVL

perience of seven hundred years might convince the ri­

val nations of the impossibility of maintaining their con­

quests, beyond the.fatal limits of the Tigris and Eu­

phrates. Yet the emulation of Trajan and Julian was

awakened by the trophies of Alexander, and the sove­

reigns of Persia indulged the ambitious hope of restoring

the empire of Cyrus.a Such extraordinary efforts of

power and courage will always command the attention of

posterity; but the events by which the fate of nations is

not materially changed, leave a faint impression on the

page of history, and the patience of the reader would be

exhausted by the repetition of the same hostilities, un­

dertaken without cause, prosecuted without glory, and

terminated without effect. The arts of negotiation, un­

known to the simple greatness of the senate and the

Cassars, were assiduously cultivated by the Byzantine

princes ; and the memorials of their perpetual embassies1"

repeat, with the same uniform prolixity, the language of

falsehood and declamation, the insolence of the barba­

rians, and the servile temper of the tributary Greeks.

Lamenting the barren superfluity of materials, I have

studied to compress the narrative of these uninteresting

transactions: but the just Nushirvan is still applauded

as the model of oriental kings, and the ambition of his

grandson Chosroes prepared the revolution of the east,

which was speedily accomplished by the arms and the

religion of the successors of Mahomet.

Conquest In the useless altercations that precede and justify the

by Ne™e" quarrels of princes, the Greeks and the barbarians ac-

a'd'wo ^use^ eacn other of violating the peace which had been

&c. concluded between the two empires about four years be­

fore the death of Justinian. The sovereign of Persia and

India aspired to reduce under his obedience the province

* Miss! qui. . . reposcerent. . . veteres Persarum ac Macedonum terminos, seque  
invasurum posscssa Cyro et post Alexandre, per vaniloquentiam ac minus
jaciebat.

Tacit. Annal. 6. 31. Such was the language of the Arsacidae; I have repeatedly

marked the lofty claims of the Sassanians.

h See the emhassies of Menander, extracted and preserved in the tenth century
by

the order of Constautiae Porpbyrogcuitus.

