CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

extinguish their resentment: the Turkish ambassadors

pursued the footsteps of the vanquished to the Jaik, the

Volga, mount Caucasus, the Euxine, and Constanti­

nople, and at length appeared before the successor of

Constantine, to request that he would not espouse the

cause of rebels and fugitives. Even commerce had some

share in this remarkable negotiation: and the Sogdoites^

who were now the tributaries of the Turks, embraced

the fair occasion of opening, by the north of the Cas­

pian, a new road for the importation of Chinese silk

into the Roman empire. The Persian, who preferred

the navigation of Ceylon, had stopped the caravans of

Bochara and Samarcand: their silk was contemptuously

burnt: some Turkish ambassadors died in Persia, with

a suspicion of poison; and the great khan permitted his

faithful vassal Maniach, the prince of the Sogdoites, to

propose, at the Byzantine court, a treaty of alliance

against their common enemies. Their splendid apparel

and rich presents, the fruit of oriental luxury, distin­

guished Maniach and his colleagues from the rude sa­

vages of the north: their letters, in the Scythian cha-*-

racter and language, announced a people who had at­

tained the rudiments of science," they enumerated the

conquests, they offered the friendship and military aid

of the Turks; and their sincerity was attested by direful

imprecations (if they were guilty of falsehood) against

their own head, and the head of Disabul their master.

The Greek prince entertained with hospitable regard

the ambassadors of a remote and powerful monarch:

the sight of silk-worms and looms disappointed the

hopes of the Sogdoites; the emperor renounced, or

seemed to renounce, the fugitive Avars, but he accepted

* The Russians hare found characters, rude hieroglyphics, on the Irtish and Yeni­  
sei, on medals, tombs, idols, rocks, obelisks, &o. (Strahleoberg, Hist. or
Siberia, p.

324. 346. 406. 439.) Dr. Hyde(de Religione Veterum Persarum, p. 521, &c.) has

Ifiven two alphabets of Thibet and of the Eygours. I have long harboured a
suspi­

cion that aUthe Scythian, and some, perhaps much, of the Indian science, was
derived

from the Greeks of Bactruuia.

: you v. '■..'. ; . ..

