CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Ill

vailed among the Magi; that the nobles were haughty,

the courtiers servile, and the magistrates unjust; that

the guilty sometimes escaped, and that the innocent were

often oppressed. The disappointment of the philoso­

phers, provoked them to overlook the real virtues of the

Persians; and they were scandalized, more deeply per­

haps than became their profession, with the plurality of

wives and concubines, the incestuous marriages, and the

custom of exposing dead bodies to the dogs and vultures,

instead of hiding them in the earth, or consuming them

with fire. Their repentance was expressed by a preci­

pitate return, and they loudly declared, that they had

rather die on the borders of the enjpire, than enjoy the

wealth and favour of the barbarian. From this journey,

however, they derived a benefit which reflects the purest

lustre on the character of Chosroes. He required, that

the seven sages, who had visited the court of Persia,

should be exempted from the penal laws which Justinian

enacted against his Pagan subjects; and this privilege,

expressly stipulated in a treaty of peace, was guarded by

the vigilance of a powerful mediator/ Simplicius and ™e last of

his companions ended their lives in peace and obscurity : Pher«.

and as they left no disciples, they terminate the long list

of Grecian philosophers, who may be justly praised, not­

withstanding their defects, as the wisest and most vir­

tuous of their contemporaries. The writings of Simpli­

cius are now extant. His physical and metaphysical

commentaries on Aristotle have passed away with the

fashion of the times; but his moral interpretation of

Epictetus is preserved in the library of nations, as a clas­

sic book, most excellently adapted to direct the will, to

purify the heart, and confirm the understanding, by a

just confidence in the nature both of God and man.

About the same time that Pythagoras first invented ne Ro.m,n

J ^ consulship

extinguish*

r Agathias (lib. 2. p. 69—71.)relates tins cnrious story. Chosroes ascended
the eil by Jus-

throne in the year 531, and made his first peace with the Romans in the
beginning of t■ nian'

, (Asse

533, a date most compatible with his young fame and old age of Isidore.
(Astemail, a, jj# 54].

Bibliot. Orient, tom. 3. p. 401. Pajfi, tom. 2. p. 543.5i0.)

