CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 385

ethics, and jurisprudence. Whenever their judgments

agree, they corroborate each other; but as often as they

differ, a prudent legislator appreciates the guilt and pu­

nishment according to the measure of social injury. On

this principle, the most daring attack on the life and pro­

perty of a private citizen, is judged less atrocious than

the crime of treason or rebellion, which invades the ma­

jesty of the republic: the obsequious civilians unani­

mously pronounced, that the republic is contained in the

person of its chief: and the edge of the Julian law was

sharpened by the incessant diligence of the emperors.

The licentious commerce of the sexes may be tolerated

as an impulse of nature, or forbidden as a source of dis­

order and corruption: but the fame, the fortunes, the

family of the husband, are seriously injured by the adul­

tery of the wife. The wisdom of Augustus, after curb­

ing the freedom of revenge, applied to this domestic of­

fence the animadversion of the laws: and the guilty par­

ties, after the payment of heavy forfeitures and fines,

were condemned to long or perpetual exile in two sepa­

rate islands.' Religion pronounces an equal censure

against the infidelity of the husband: but as it is not ac­

companied by the same civil effects, the wife was never

permitted to vindicate her wrongs;' and the distinction

of simple or double adultery, so familiar and so important

in the canon law, is unknown to the jurisprudence of the

code and pandects. I touch with reluctance, and dispatch unnatural

with impatience, a more odious vice, of which modesty

rejects the name, and nature abominates the idea. The

primitive Romans were infected by the example of the

offence was most frequent, condemns the criminals, ad gladium, lndi
damnationem.

(Ulpian de Oliicio Prouonsulis, lib. 8. in Collatione Legum Mosaic, et Rom.
tit. 11.

p. 235.)

* Till the publication of the Julias Paulus of Soholting, (lib. 2. tit. 26. p. 317—  
323.) it was affirmed and believed, that the Julian laws punished adulter;
with

death ; and the mistake arose from the fraud or error of Tribonian. Yet
Lipsius had

suspected the truth from the narrative of Tacitus, (Annal. 2. 50, 3. 24. 4.
42.) and

even from the practice of Augustus, who distinguished the treasonable
frailties of his

female kindred.

'In cases of adultery, Several confined to the husband the righlof public
accusa­

tion. (Cod. Justinian, lib. 9. til. 9. leg. 1.) Nor is this privilege
unjust—so different

are the effects of male or female infidelity.

