CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 47$

out in the neighbourhood of Tripoli: the Greek colonies

of Cyrene were finally extirpated; and the conqueror, (

treading in the footsteps of Alexander, returned in tri­

umph through the sands of the Lybian desert. In the of Asia

first campaign, another army advanced from the'Euphra- a!"d%i6,

tes to the Thracian Bosphorus; Chalcedon surrendered &0-

after a long siege, and a Persian camp was maintained

above ten years in the presence of Constantinople. The

sea-coast of Pontus, the city of Ancyra, and the isle of

Rhodes, are enumerated among the last conquests of the

great king; and if Chosroes had possessed any maritime

power, his boundless ambition would have spread slavery

and desolation over the provinces of Europe.

From the long disputed banks of the Tigris and Eur His reign

phrates, the reign of the grandson of Nushirvan was Smoencl.

suddenly extended to the Hellespont and. the Nile, the

ancient limits of the Persian monarchy. But the pro­

vinces, which had been fashioned by the habits of six

hundred years to the virtues and vices of the Roman

government, supported with reluctance the yoke of the

barbarians. The idea of a republic was kept alive by the

institutions, or at least by the writings, of the Greeks

and Romans, and the subjects of Heraclius had been

educated to pronounce the words of liberty and law.

But it has always been the pride and policy of oriental

princes, to display the titles and attributes of their om­

nipotence; to upbraid a nation of slaves with their true

name and abject condition, and to enforce, by cruel and

insolent threats, the rigour of their absolute commands.

The Christians of the east were scandalized by the wor­

ship of fire, and the impious doctrine of the two princi­

ples ; the Magi were not less intolerant than the bishops,

and the martyrdom of some native Persians, who had

deserted the religion of Zoroaster/ was conceived to be

to Carthage instead of Chalcedon, is founded on the near resemblance of the
Greek

words KaX^fiSeva and Ka^niova, in the text of Theophanes, ccc. which have been

sometimes confounded by transcribers and sometimes by critics.

r The genuine acts of St. Anastasius are published in those of the seventh
general

council, from whence Baronius (Annal. Eocles. A. D. Gil. 62G, 627.) and Butler

2 I 2

