CHAP. XM.j OF THE R6MAN EMPIRE.

Csesaria, and pitched their camps, with impunity, in the

fertile province of Byzaci um. The form idable strength

and artful conduct of Belisarius secured the neutrality

of the Moorish princes, whose vanity aspired to re­

ceive, in the emperor's name, the ensigns of their re­

gal dignity!' They were astonished by the rapid event,

and trembled in the presence of their conqueror. But

his approaching departure soon relieved the apprehen­

sions of a savage and superstitious people; the number

of their wives allowed them to disregard the safety of

iheir infant hostages; and when the Roman general

hoisted sail in the port of Carthage, he heard the cries,

and almost beheld the flames, of the desolated province.

Yet he persisted in his resolution; and, leaving only a

part of his guards to reinforce the feeble garrisons, he

intrusted the command of Africa to the eunuch Solo­

mon,™ who proved himself not unworthy to be the suc­

cessor of Belisarius. In the first invasion, some detach­

ments, with two officers of merit, were surprised and in­

tercepted; but Solomon speedily assembled his troops,

marched from Carthage into the heart of the country,

and in two great battles destroyed sixty thousand of the

barbarians. The Moors depended on their multitude,

their swiftness, and their inaccessible mountains; and

the aspect and smell of their camels are said to have pro­

duced some confusion in the Rom an; cavalry .* But as

soon as they were commanded to dismount, they derided

this contemptible obstacle: as soon as the columns as­

cended the hills, the naked and disorderly crowd was

'The customary gifts were a sceptre, a crown-or a cap, a white cloak, a
figured

1 tnnio and shoes, all adorned with gold and silver; nor were these precious
metals

less acceptable in the shape of coin. (Procop. Vandal, lib. 1. c. 25.)

u See the African government and warfare of Solomon, in Procopius. (Vandal.
lib.

2. c. 10—13. 19, 20.) He was recalled, and again restored; and his last
victory

dates in the thirteenth year of Justinian. (A. D. 539.) An accident in his
childhood

had rendered him an eunnch: (lib. 1. c. 11.) the other Roman' generals were
ainjtly

furnished with beards, wxyomt timt>.apmt. (lib. 2. c. 8.)

* This natural antipathy of the horse for the camel, is allirmed by the ancients;  
(Xcnophon. Cyropird. lib. 6. p. 438; lib. 7. p. 483. 492. edit. Hatchiuson.
Polyson.

Stratagem. 7. 6. Plin. Hist. Nat. 8. 26. iElian de Natur. Animal, lib. 3. c.
7.) but it

'is disproved, by daily experience, and derided by the best judges, the
Orientals.

(Voyage d'Olearius, p. 553.)

