CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

empire can seldom be influenced by any personal consi-

derations. Virtue, or even reason, will suggest to his

impartial mind, that he is the guardian of peace and

equity, and that the interest of society is inseparably

connected with his own. Under the weakest and most

vicious reign, the seat of justice was filled by the wisdom

and integrity of Papinian and Ulpian;" and the purest

materials of the Code and Pandects are inscribed with

the names of Caracalla and his ministers." The tyrant

of Rome was sometimes the benefactor of the provinces.

A dagger terminated the crimes of Domitian; but the

prudence of Nervaconfirmed his acts, which, in the joy

of their deliverance, had been rescinded by an indignant

senate/ Yet in the rescripts? replies to the consultations.1

of the magistrates, the wisest of princes might be deceiv­

ed by a partial exposition of the case. And this abuse,

which placed their hasty decisions on the same level with

mature and deliberate acts of legislation, was ineffectu­

ally condemned by the sense and example of Trajan.

The rescripts of the emperor, his grants and decrees, his

edicts and pragmatic sanctions, were subscribed in pur­

ple ink,» and transmitted to the provinces as general or

special laws, which the magistrates were bound to exe­

cute, and the people to obey. But as their number

continually multiplied, the rule of obedience became

each day more doubtful and obscure, till the will of

the sovereign was fixed and ascertained in the Grego-

u There is more envy than reason in the complaint of Macrinns, (Jul.
Capitolin.

e. 13.)—Nefas esse leges videri Coinmodi et Caracalke et hoininum imperitoruni

voluntates. Comraodas was made a Divas by Severus. (Dodwell, Prelect. 8. p.
324,

325.) Yet he occars only twice in the Pandects.

z Of Antonius Caracalla alone two hundred constitutions are extant in the
Code, and

with his father one hnndred and sixty. These two princes are quoted fifty
times in

the Pandects and eight in the Institutes. (Terasson, p. 265.)

> Plin Secund, Episiol. 10.66. Sueton. in Domitian. c. 23.

* It was a maxim of Constantino, contra jus rescripta non raleant, (Cod. Tlieodos.  
lib. 1. tit. 2. leg. 1.) The emperors reluctantly allow some scrutiny into the
law and

the fact, some delay, petition, &o. *, but these iosnfficent remedies are too
much in Ilia

discretion and at the peril of the judge.

a A compound of vermilion and cinnabar, which marks the imperial diplomas from

Leo I. (A.D.470.) to the fall of the Greek empire. (Bityliotheque Raisunnuede
la Di­

plomatique, lum. 1. p.509—514. Laini,de Eruditionc Apostoloruni, tow. 2. p.72Q

