CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

my subject, if it were in my "power to delineate the pri­

vate, life of the conquerors of Italy: and I shall relate with

pleasure the adventurous gallantry of Autharis, which

breathes the true spirit of chivalry and romance.d After

the loss of his promised bride, a Merovingian princess,

he sought in marriage the daughter of the king of Bava­

ria; and the Garibald accepted the alliance of the Italian

monarch. Impatient of the slow progress of negotiation;

the ardent lover escaped from his palace, and visited the

court of Bavaria in the train of'his own embassy. At

the public audience, the unknown stranger advanced to

the throne, and informed Garibald, that the ambassador

was indeed the minister of state, but that he alone was

the friend of Autharis, who had trusted him with the

delicate commission of making a faithful report of the

charms of his spouse. Theudelinda was summoned to

undergo this important examination; and after a pause

of silent rapture, he hailed her as the queen of Italy, and

humbly requested, that, according to the custom of the

nation, she would present a cup of wine to the first of her

new subjects. By the command of her father, she Obey-,

ed: Autharis received the cup in his turn, and, in restor­

ing it to the princess, he secretly touched her hand, and

drew his own finger over his face and lips. In the even­

ing, Theudelinda imparted to her nurse the indiscreet

familiarity of the stranger, and was comforted by the

assurance, that such boldness could proceed only from;

the king her husband, who, by his beauty and courage,

appeared worthy of her love. The ambassadors were

dismissed: no soonendid they reach the confines of Itar

ly, than Autharis, raising himself on his horse, darted his

battle-axe against a tree with incomparable strength and

dexterity. "Such (said he to the astonished Bavarians),

such are the strokes of the king of the Lombards." On

the approach of a French army, Garibald and his daugh-

d The story of Autharis and Theudelinda is related by Paul, lib. 3. c. 29. 34.
and ■

any fragment of Bavarian antiquity excites the indefatigable diligence of the
count de

Buat. Hist. desPeuples de I'liurope, tom. It. p. 595—035. tom. 12. p.t—53.

VOL. V. 2 F

