450 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

fortress at the dawn of day. From thence the king of

Persia was conducted to the more honourable residence

of Hierapolis; and Maurice dissembled his pride, and dis­

played his benevolence, at the reception of the letters and

ambassadors of the grandson of Nnshirvan. They hum­

bly represented the vicissitudes of fortune and the com­

mon interest of princes, exaggerated the ingratitude of

Bahram the agent of the evil principle, and urged, with

specious argument, that it was for the advantage of the

Romans themselves to support the two monarchies which

balance the world, the two great luminaries by whose sa­

lutary influence it is vivified and adorned. The anxiety

- of Chosroes was soon relieved by the assurance, that the  
emperor had espoused the cause of justice and royalty;

but Maurice prudently declined the expense and delay of

his useless visit to Constantinople. In the name of his

generous benefactor, a rich diadem was presented to the

fugitive prince with an inestimable gift of jewels and gold;

a powerful army was assembled on the frontiers of Syria

and Armenia under the command of the valiant and faith­

ful Narses/ and this general, of his own nation, and his

own choice, was directed to pass the Tigris, and never to

sheath his sword till he had restored Chosroes to the

throne of his ancestors. The enterprise, however splen-

JBt return. did, was less arduous than it might appear. Persia had

already repented of her fatal rashness, which betrayed

the heir of the house of Sassan to the ambition of a re­

bellions subject; and the bold refusal of the Magi to

consecrate his usurpation, compelled Bahram to assume

the sceptre, regardless of the laws and prejudices of the

laws and prejudices of the nation. The palace was soon

distracted with conspiracy, the city with tumult, the pro­

vinces with insurrection; and the cruel execution of the

r In this age there were three warriors of the name of Narses, who had been
often

confounded. (Pagi, Critica, tom. 2. p. 6.40.)—1. A Persarmenian, the brother
of

Isaac and Armatius, who, after a successful action against Belissrius,
deserted from

his Persian sovereign, and afterward served in the Italian war. 2. The eunuch
wha

conquered Italy. 3. The restorer of Chosroes, who is celebrated in the poem
ofCo-

rippus (lib. 3. 220—227.) as excelsus super omnia vertice agmina .... hahitu
mo*

destus . . morum probitate placens, virtute vercudus; fulroineus, cantus,
vigilans,&Q.

