CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 137

and the certain intelligence that the Vandal had fled to

the inaccessible country of the Moors, determined Beli-

sarius to relinquish the vain pursuit, and to fix his winter-

quarters at Carthage. From thence he dispatched his

principal lieutenant, to inform the emperor, that in the

space of three months he had achieved the conquest of

Africa.

Belisarius spoke the language of truth. The surviving Conqnest of

Vandals yielded, without resistance, their arms and their Beiinrior.

freedom: the neighbourhood of Carthage submitted to A'D"534'

his presence; and the more distant provinces were suc­

cessively subdued by the report of his victory. Tripoli

was confirmed in her voluntary allegiance; Sardinia and

Corsica surrendered to an officer, who carried, instead of

a sword, the head of the valiant Zano; and the isles of

Majorca, Minorca, and Yvica, consented to remain a

humble appendage of the African kingdom. Caesarea, a

royal city, which in looser geography may be confounded

with the modern Algiers, was situate thirty days' march

to the westward of Carthage: by land, the road was in­

fested by the Moors; but the sea was open, and the

Romans were now masters of the sea. An active and

discreet tribune sailed as far as the straits, where he oc­

cupied Septem or Ceuta/ which rises opposite to Gib­

raltar on the African coast; that remote place was af­

terward adorned and fortified by Justinian; and he seems

to have indulged the vain ambition of extending his em­

pire to the columns of Hercules. He received the mes­

sengers of victory at the time when he was preparing to

publish the pandects of the Roman law; and the devout

of tlve Lomhards, transported them (A. D. 721.) from Sardinia to Pavia. In the

year 1695, the Augustin friars of that oity found a brick arch, marble coffin,
silver

case, silk wrapper, bones, blood, &c. and perhaps an inscription of Agostino,
in Go­

thic letters. But this useful discovery has been disputed by reason and
jealousy.

(Baronias, Annal. A. D. 725. no. 2—9. Tillemont, Mem. Eccles. lom. 13. p. 944.
*

Montfaucon, Diarium Ital. p. 26—30. Muratori. Antiq. Ital. Medii Mvi. tom. 5.
dis­

sert. 58. p. 9. who had composed a separate treatise before the decree of the
hishop

of Pavia, and pope Benedict XIII.) ,

1 T* rn; aroXitnin w(W|Uia, is the expression of Procopius (de Edific. lib. 6.
c. 7.)

Ceuta, which has been defaced by the Portuguese, flourished in nobles and
palaces,

in agriculture and manufactures, under the more prosperous reign of the Arabs.
(I'Af-

riqne de Marmol. lom. 2, p. 236 ) . ,

VOL. V. L

