CHAP. XLII.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 305

was intrepid; yet such is the uncertainty of courage,

that the two armies were suddenly struck with a panic:

they fled from each other, and the rival kings remained

with their guards in the midst of an empty plain. A short

truce was obtained; but their mutual resentment again

kindled; and the remembrance of their shame rendered

the next encounter more desperate and bloody. Forty

thousand of the barbarians perished in the decisive battle,

which broke the power of the Gepidae, transferred the

fears and wishes of Justinian, and first displayed the cha­

racter of Alboin, the youthful prince of the Lombards,

and the future conqueror of Italy.1*

The wild people, who dwelt or wandered in the plains Th»Scla-

of Russia, Lithuania, and Poland, might be reduced, in

the age of Justinian, under the two great families of the

Bulgarians' and the Sclavonians, According to the

Greek writers, the former, who touched the Euxine and

the lake of Maeotis, derived from the Huns their name

or descent; and it is needless to renew the simple and

well-known picture of Tartar manners. They were

bold and dexterous archers, who drank the milk, and feast­

ed on the flesh, of their fleet and indefatigable horses;

whose flocks and herds followed, or rather guided, the

motions of their roving camps; to whose inroads no

country was remote or impervious, and who were prac­

tised in flight, though incapable of fear. The nation

was divided into two powerful and hostile tribes, who

pursued each other with fraternal hatred. They eagerly

disputed the friendship or rather the gifts of the empe­

ror; and the distinction which nature had fixed between

k I have used, without undertaking to reconcile, the facts in Procopins,
(Goth. lib.

3. c. 14. lib. 3. c. 33, 34. lib. 4. c. 18. 25.) Paul Diaconus, (de Gestis
Langohard.

lib. 1. c. 1—23. in Muratori, Script. Rerum Italicarum, toni. 1. p. 405'—419.)
and

Jornandes. (de Success. Regnorum, p. 242.) The patient reader ma; draw some

light from Masoou (Hist, of the Germans, and Annptat. 23.) and de Boat. (Hist.
des

Peuples, &c. tom. 9—11.)

1 I adopt the appellation of Bulgarians, from Ennodius, (in Panegyr.
Theodorici^

Opp. Sirmohd, tom. \. p. 1598,1599.) Jornandes, (de Rebus Geticis, c. 5. p.
194. et

de Regn. Successione, p. 242.) Theophanes, (p. 185.) and the Chronicles of
Cassio-

dorius and Marcellinus. The name of Hans is too vague; the tribes of the
Cuttiir-'

gurians and Utturguriaus are too minute aud too harsh,.

