DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX'

and the diligence of Proclus and his disciples. The rea­

son and piety of their Roman pupil were fortunately saved

from the contagion of mystery and magic, which polluted

the groves of the academy; but he imbibed the spirit

and imitated the method, of his dead and living masters,

who attempted to reconcile the strong and subtle sense

of Aristotle with the devout contemplation and sublime

fancy of Plato. After his return to Rome, and his mar­

riage with the daughter of his friend, the patrician Sym-

machus, Boethius still continued, in a palace of ivory and

marble, to prosecute the same studies/ The church was

edified by his profound defence of the orthodox creed

against the Arian, the Eutychian, and the Nestorian he­

resies; and the Catholic unity was explained or exposed

in a formal treatise by the indifference of three distinct

though consubstantial persons. For the benefit of his

Latin readers, his genius submitted to teach the first ele­

ments of the arts and sciences of Greece, The geome­

try of Euclid, the music of Pythagoras, the arithmetic of

Nicomachus, the mechanics of Archimedes, the astro­

nomy of Ptolemy, the theology of Plato, and the logic

of Aristotle, with the commentary of Porphyry, were

translated and illustrated by the indefatigable pen of the

Roman senator. And he alone was esteemed capable of

describing the wonders of art, a sun-dial, a water-clock,

or a sphere which represented the motions of the planets.

From these abstruse speculations, Boethius stooped, or,

to speak more truly, he rose to the social duties of public

and private life; the indigent were relieved by his liber­

ality; and his eloquence, which flattery might compare

to the voice of Demosthenes or Cicero, was uniformly

less too long: bqt the simple Tact of a visit to Athens is justified by mnch
internal

evidence, (Bruker, Hist. Crit. Philosoph. tom. 3. p. 524—527.) and by an
expression

{though vagae and amhiguous) of his friend Cassiodorius, (Var. 1. 45.) "longe
positas

Athenas, introisti."

'Bibliothecae comptos ebore ac vitro parietes, &c. (Consol. Phil. lib. 1.
pros. 5.

p. 74.) The Epistles of Ennodios (6. 6, 7.13. 8. 1. 31. 37. 40.) and
Cassiodorius

tVar. 1. 39. 4. 6. 9. 21.) afford many proofs of the high reputation which he
enjoyed

in his own times. It is true that the hishop of Pavia wanted to purchase of
him an

old house at Milan, and praise might be tendered and aceepted in part of
payment.

