CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

they might boast, perhaps with some exaggeration, that

they surpassed, in a tenfold proportion, the diminutive

powers of the Romans. But these powers were under

the command of Belisarius: and, as he was conscious of

their superior merit, he permitted the barbarians to sur­

prise him at an unseasonable hour. The Romans were

instantly under arms: a rivulet covered their front; the

cavalry formed the first line, which Belisarius supported

in the centre, at the head of five hundred guards; the

infantry, at some distance, was posted in the second line;

and the vigilance of the general watched the separate

station and ambiguous faith of the Massagetse, who se­

cretly reserved their aid for the conquerors. The histo­

rian has inserted, and the reader may easily supply, the

speeches" of the commanders, who, by arguments the

most apposite to their situation, inculcated the impor­

tance of victory, and the contempt of life. Zano, with

the troops which had followed him to the conquest of

Sardinia, was placed in the centre; and the throne of

Genseric might have stood, if the multitude of Vandals

had imitated their intrepid resolution. Casting away

their lances and missile weapons, they drew their swords,

and expected the charge: the Roman cavalry thrice

passed the rivulet; they were thrice repulsed; and the

conflict was firmly maintained, till Zano fell, and the

standard of Belisarius was displayed. Gelimer retreated

to his camp; the Huns joined the pursuit; and the vic­

tors despoiled the bodies of the slain. Yet no more

than fifty Romans, and eight hundred Vandals, were

found on the field of battle; so inconsiderable was the

carnage of a day, which extinguished a nation, and trans­

ferred the empire of Africa. In the evening, Belisarius

led his infantry to the attack of the camp; and the pu­

sillanimous flight of Gelimer exposed the vanity of his

recent declarations, that, to the vanquished, death was a

relief, like a burden, and infamy the only object of ter-

s These orations always express the seDse of the times, and sometimes of the
ac­

tors. 1 have condensed that sense, and thrown ana; declamation.

