CtfAP. XXXIX,] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.?

head of six thousand volunteers, he secretly left the

camp in quest of adventures, descended the Danube as

far as Singidunum or Belgrade, and soon returned to his

father with the spoils of a Sarmatian king whom he had

vanquished and slain. Such triumphs, however, were

productive only of fame, and the invincible Ostrogoths

were reduced to extreme distress by the want of clothing

and food. They unanimously resolved to desert their

Pannonian encampments, and boldly to advance into the

warm and wealthy neighbourhood of the Byzantine

court, which already maintained in pride and luxury so

many bands of confederate Goths. After proving by

some acts of hostility that they could be dangerous, or at

least troublesome, enemies-, the Ostrogoths sold at a high

price their reconciliation and fidelity, accepted a dona­

tive of lands and money, and wfcere intrusted with the

defence of the Lower Danube, under the command of

Theodoric, who succeeded after his father's death to the

hereditary throne of the Amali."

A hero, descended from a race of kings, must have The reign

despised the base Isaurin who was invested with the Ro- a. d. 474

man purple, without any endowments, of mind or body, APt99.FeI>'

without any advantages of royal birth, or superior quali­

fications. After the failure of the Theodosian line, the

choice of Pulcheria and of the senate might be justified

in some measure by the characters of Martian and Leo,

but the latter of these princes confirmed and dishonoured

his reign by the perfidious murder of Aspar and his sons,,

who too rigorously exacted the debt of gratitude and obe­

dience. The inheritance of Leo and of the east was

peaceably devolved on his infant grandson, the son of

his daughter Ariadne; and her Isaurian husband, the

fortunate Trascalisseus, exchanged that barbarous sound

for the Grecian appellation of Zeno. After the decease

of the elder Leo, he approached with unnatural respect

e The state of the Ostrogoths, and the first years of Theodoric, are found in
Jor-

nandes (c. 52—56. p. 689—696.) and Malchus (Excerpt. Legat. p. 78—80.) who.

erroneonsly styles him the son of Walamir,

