DECLINE AND FAIX [CHAP. XLVI .

of Commeniiolus0 is the object of satire or comedy rather

than of serious history, since he was even deficient in the

vile and vulgar qualification of personal courage. His

solemn councils, strange evolutions, and secret orders,

always supplied an apology for flight or delay. If he

marched against the enemy, the pleasant valleys of mount

Hasmus opposed an insuperablebarrier; but in his retreat,

he explored, with fearless curiosity, the most difficult

and obsolete paths, which had almost escaped the me­

mory of the oldest native. The only blood which he

lost was drawn, in a real or affected malady, by the lan­

cet of a surgeon; and his health, which felt with exqui­

site sensibility the approach of the barbarians, was uni­

formly restored by the repose and safety of the winter

season. A prince who could promote and support this

unworthy favourite, must derive no glory from the acci­

dental merit of his colleague Priscus.p In five succes­

sive battles, which seem to have been conducted with skill

and resolution, seventeen thousand two hundred barba­

rians were made prisoners; near sixty thousand, with

four sons of the chagan, were slain: the Roman general

surprised a peaceful district of the Gepidas, who slept

under the protection of the Avars; and his last trophies

were erected on the banks of the Danube and the Teyss.

Since the death of Trajan, the arms of the empire had

not penetrated so deeply into the old Dacia: yet the suc­

cess of Priscus was transient and barren ; and he was soon

recalled, by the apprehension, that Baian, with dauntless'

spirit and recruited forces, was preparing to avenge his

defeat under the walls of Constantinople.11,

The theory of war was not more familiar to the camps

'of Cassar and Trajan, than to those of Justinian and Mau-

• See the shameful conduct of Commentiolus, in Theophylact, lib. 2. c. 10—15;

lib. 7. c. 13, 14; lib. 8. c. 2.4. ''

P See the exploits of Prisons, lib. 8. c. 2, 3.

1 The general detail of the war against the Avars, may be traced in the first,

second, sixth, seventh, and eighth books of the History of the Emperor
Maurice, bj

Theophylact Simocatta. As he wrote in the reign of Heraclius, he had no
temptation

to flatter; but his want of judgment renders him diffuse in trifles, and
concise in the

most interesting facts. . ■

