CHAP. XLI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

cious excuse, that their ruined walls were incapable of

defence; the soldiers paid a just equivalent for a plenti­

ful market; and curiosity alone interrupted the peaceful

occupations of the husbandman or artificer. Naples,

which has swelled to a great and populous capital, long

cherished the language and manners of a Grecian colo­

ny;' and the choice of Virgil had ennobled this elegant

retreat, which attracted the lovers of repose and study;

from the noise, the smoke, and the laborious opulence of

Rome." As soon as the place was invested by sea and

land, Belisarius gave audience to the deputies of the peo­

ple, who exhorted him to disregard a conquest unworthy

of his arms, to seek the Gothic king in a field of battle,

and, after his victory, to claim, as the sovereign of Rome,

the allegiance of the dependant cities.—" When I treat

with my enemies (replied the Roman chief,'with a

haughty smile), I am more accustomed to give than to

receive counsel: but I hold in one hand inevitable ruin,

and in the other, peace and freedom, such as Sicily now

enjoys." The impatience of delay urged him to grant

the most liberal terms; his honour secured their perform­

ance; but Naples was divided into two factions; and the

Greek democracy was inflamed by their orators, who,

with much spirit and some truth, represented to the mul­

titude, that the Goths would punish their defection, and

that Belisarius himself must esteem their loyalty and va­

lour. Their deliberations, however, were not perfectly

free: the city was commanded by eight hundred barba­

rians, whose wives and children were detained at Ravenna

as the pledge of their fidelity; and even the Jews, who

were rich and numerous, resisted, with desperate enthu-r

siasm, the intolerant laws of Justinian. In a much later

'Nero (says Tacitus, Annal. 15.35.) Neapolim quasi Grascain nrbem delegit. One

hundred and fifty years afterward, in the time ofSeplimiiM Severus, the
Hellenism of

the Neapolitans is praised by Philostralus: yim EMuvsc *« ao-ruxoi, Sti xoi
raj

crmvSa; im \oym EXXnnxoi eitri. (loon. lib. 1. p. 763. edit. Olear.)

■ The otinin of Naples is praised by the Roman poets, by Virgil, Horace,
Silius

Italicus, andStatius (Cluver. Ital. Ant. lib. 4. p. 1149,1159). Iu an elegant
episllc

(Sylv. lib. 3. 5. p. 94—98. edit. Markland), Slatius undertakes the difficult
task of

drawing his wife from the pleasures of Rome to that calm retreat.

