GHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

experience and free conversation of a soldier, a statesman,

and a traveller; his style continually aspires, and often

attains, to the merit of strength and elegance; his re­

flections, more especially in the speeches, which he too

frequently inserts, contain a rich fund of political know­

ledge; and the historian, excited by the generous ambi­

tion of pleasing and instructing posterity, appears to dis­

dain the prejudices of the people, and the flattery of

courts. The writings of Procopius° were read and ap­

plauded by his contemporaries ;p but, although he re­

spectfully laid them at the foot of the throne, the pride

of Justinian must have been wounded by the praise of a

hero, who perpetually eclipses the glory of his inactive

sovereign. The conscious dignity of independence was

subdued by the hopes and fears of a slave; and the se­

cretary of Belisarius laboured for pardon and reward in

the six books of the imperial edifices. He had dexter-*

ously chosen a subject of apparent splendour, in which

he could loudly celebrate the genius, the magnificence,

and the piety of a prince, who, both as a conqueror and

legislator, had surpassed the puerile virtues of Themis-

tocles and Cyrus.q Disappointment might urge the

flatterer to secret revenge; and the first glance of favour

might again tempt him to suspend and suppress a libel;'

° The literary fate of Procopius has been somewhat unlucky. 1. His books <le

Bello Gothico were stolen by Leonard Aretin, and published (Folginii, 1470;
Venet.

1171, apud Jansnn; Mattaire, Annal. Typograph. tom. 1. edit, posterior, p.
290. 304.

279. 299.) in his own name (See Vossius de Hist. Lat. lib. 3. o. 5. and the
feeble

defence of the Venice Giornale de Letterati, tom. 19. p. 207.) 2. His works
were

mutilated by the first Latin translators, Christopher Persona (Giornale, tom.
19.

p. 340—348.) and Raphael de Volatena, (Huet de Claris. Interpretibus, p. 166.)
who

did not even consult the MS. of the Vatican library, of which they were
prefects.

(Aleman. in Prafat. Anecdote.) 3. The Greek text was not printed till 1607, by

Hoeschelius of Augsburgh. (Dictionnaire de Bayle, tom. 2. p. 782.) 4. The
Paris

edition wasimperfectly executed by Claude Maltret, a Jesuit of Thoulouse, iu
1663,

tar distant from the Louvre press and the Vatican MS. from which, however, he
ob­

tained some supplements. His promised commentaries, &c. have never appeared.

The Agathias of Leydon (1594) has been wisely reprinted by the Paris editor,
with

the Latin version of Bonaventura Vulcanius, a learned interpreter. (Huet, p.
176.)

P Agathias in Praefat. p. 7, 8. lib. 4. p. 137. Evagrius, lib. 4. c. 12. See
likewise

Photius, cod. 63. p. 65.

1 Kupou uroiSsia (says he, Praefat. ad 1. de Edificiis wEpi Xria-ftnraiv) is
no more than

Kujou woiSut—a pun! Iu these five books, Procopius atlects a Christian, as
well as a

courtly style.

r Procopius discloses himself, (Prafat. ad Anccdot. c. 1. 2. 5.) and the
anecdotes

are reckoned** the ninth book by Suldas. (tom. 3. p. 186. edit. Kustcr.) The
silence

