CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 11

sister, and requested, that on a day, the most illustrious

festival of his life, they would adorn him with the rich

garments which they had worked with their own hands.

"Ourglory (saidhe) is mutual and inseparable. You

are known to the world as the mother of Theodoric;

and it becomes me to prove that I am the genuine

offspring of those heroes from whom I claim my de­

scent." The wife or concubine of Theodemir was in­

spired with the spirit of the German matrons, who es­

teemed their sons' honour far above their safety; and it

is reported, that in a desperate action, when Theodoric

himself was hurried along by the torrent of a flying

crowd, she boldly met them at the entrance of the camp,

and, by her generous reproaches, drove them back on

the swords of the enemy."

From the Alps to the extremity of Calabria, Theodo- h;« c«P;tu-

ric reigned by the right of conquest: the Vandal am- death,

bassadors surrendered the island of Sicily, as a lawful ap- Ma°'h4593,

pendage of his kingdom; and he was accepted as the

deliverer of Rome by the senate and people, who had

shut their gates against the flying usurper/ Ravenna

alone, secure in the fortifications of art and nature, still

sustained a siege of almost three years; and the daring

sallies of Odoacer carried slaughter and dismay into the

Gothic camp. At length, destitute of provisions, and

hopeless of relief, that unfortunate monarch yielded to

the groans of his subjects and the clamours of his sol­

diers. A treaty of peace was negotiated by the bishop

of Ravenna; the Ostrogoths were admitted into the city,

and the hostile kings consented, under the sanction of

an oath, to rule with equal and undivided authority the

provinces of Italy. The event of such an agreement

may be easily foreseen. After some days had been de­

voted to the semblance of joy and friendship, Odoacer,

"This anecdote is related on the modem but respectable authority of Sigonins;

(op. tom. 1. p. 580. De Occident. Imp. lib. 15.) his words are curious.—"
Would

you return?" &o. She presented, and almost displayed, the original recess.

* Hist. Miscell. lib. 15. a Roman history from Jannsto tho ninth century, an Epi­  
tome of Butropius, Paulas Diaconus, andTheophanes, which Muratori has
published

from a MS. in the Ambiosian library. (Script. Rerum 1 talk-arum, tom. 1. p.
100.) ■

c 2

