252 DECLINE AND PALL [CHAP. XLII.

quisitions; and of the.ten nations, vanquished by his in-

. vincible arms, he esteems the Romans as the least foiv

.midable."" According to the orientals, the empire of

Nushirvan extended from Ferganah in Transoxiana to

Yemen or Arabia Felix. He subdued the rebels of

Hyrcania, reduced the provinces of Cabul and Zablestan

on the banks of the Indus, broke the power of the Eu^

thalites, terminated by an honourable treaty the Turkish

.war, and admitted the daughter of the great khan into

the number of his lawful wives. Victorious and respect­

ed among the princes of Asia, he gave audience, in his

palace of Madain, or Ctesiphon, to the ambassadors of

.the world. Their gifts or tributes, arms, rich garments,

gems, slaves, or aromatics, were humbly presented at the

foot of his throne; and he condescended to accept from

'the king of India, ten quintals of the wood of aloes,a maid

seven cubits in height, and a carpet softer than silk, the

.skin, as it was reported, of an extraordinary serpent/

Conquest Justinian had been reproached for his alliance with

the Ethiopians, as if he attempted to introduce a peo­

ple of savage negroes into the system of civilized society.

But the friends of the Roman empire, the Axumites, or

Abyssinians, maybe always distinguished from the ori­

ginal natives of Africa.1 The hand pf nature has flat­

tened the noses of the negroes, covered their heads with

shaggy wool, and tinged their skin with inherent and

indelible blackness. But the olive complexion of the

Abyssinians, their hair, shape, and features, distinctly

mark them as acolony of Arabs; and this descent is con­

firmed by the resemblance of langaageand manners, the

I x The negotiations and 'treaties between Justinian and Cliosroes are
copiously

explained by Prooopius; (Persic. lib. 2. c. 10. 13, 36—28. Gothic. lib. 2. c.
11.

•iS-yAgathias, (lib. 4. p. 141, 142.) and Menandcr. (in Excerpt. Legat, p.
132—

147.) Consult Barbeyrac, Hist, des Anciens Traites, torn. 2. p. 154. 181—184,

'193—eoo.

- * P'fterbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 680, 681. 894, 295.

1 See Buifon, Hist. Naturellc, tom. 3. p. 449. Thia Arab cast of features and

complexion, which has continued three thousand fear hundred years, (Ladolph.

'Hist, et Comment. '/Ethiopia, lib. 1. e. 4.) in the colony of Abyssinia, will
'justify the

suspicion, that race, ns well as climate, must1ia»e contributed to form Uie
negroes of

the adjacent and similar regions. ,.v ,?

C 8

oftho

Abyssini­

ans,

A. D. 522.

