CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 63

liveth for ever, that your skin shall be flayed from your

body.""

If the creed of Theodora had not been tainted with Her vir«

heresy, her exemplary devotion might have atoned, in,u"'

the opinion of her contemporaries, for pride, avarice,

and cruelty. But if she employed her influence to as­

suage the intolerant fury of the emperor, the present age

will allow some merit to her religion, and much indul­

gence to her speculative errors.1 The name of Theodora

was introduced, with equal honour, in all the pious and

charitable foundations of Justinian ; and the most bene­

volent institution of his reign may be ascribed to the

sympathy of the empress for her less fortunate sisters,

who had been seduced or compelled to embrace the trade

of prostitution. A palace, on the Asiatic side of the

Bosphorus, was converted into a stately and spacious mo>-

nastery, and a liberal maintenance was assigned to five

hundred women, who had been collected from the streets

and brothels of Constantinople. In this safe and holy

retreat, they were devoted to perpetual confinement; and

the despair of some, who threw themselves headlong into

the sea, was lost in the gratitude of the penitents, who

had been delivered from sin and misery by their gene­

rous benefactress.™ The prudence of Theodora is cele­

brated by Justinian himself; and his laws are attributed

to the sage counsels of his most reverend wife, whom

he had received as the gift of the Deity." Her courage

was displayed amidst the tumult of the people and the

terrors of the court. Her chastity, from the moment

of her union with Justinian, is founded on the silence of

her implacable enemies: and, although the daughter of

k Per viventem in saecula excoriari te faciam. Anastasius de Vitis Pout.
Roman.

in Vigilio, p. 40.

1 Ladewig, p. 161—166. I give him credit for the charitable attempt, although

k hath not much charity in his temper.

■ Compare the Anecdotes (c. 17.) with the Edifices (lib. 1. c. 9.) How
differently

K'y the same fact be stated! John Malala (tom. 2. p. 174,175.) observes, that
on

this or a similar occasion, she released and clothed the girls whom she had
purchased

from the stews at five aurei a-piece.

° Novel. 8.1. An allusion to Theodora, Her enemies read (he name Dscniouo-

<W (Aleman. p. 66.)

