CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

ous inquiry into the creed of the apostle.1 His favourite

Goths, and even his mother, were permitted to retain or

embrace the Athanasian faith, and his long reign could

not afford the example of an Italian Catholic, who either

from choice or compulsion, had deviated into the religion

of the conqueror.' The people, and the barbarians them­

selves, were edified by the pomp and order of religious

worship; the magistrates were instructed to defend the

just immunities of ecclesiastical persons and possessions;

the bishops held their synods, the metropolitans exercised

their jurisdiction, and the privileges of sanctuary were'

maintained or moderated according to the spirit of the

Roman jurisprudence.1 With the protection, Theodoric

assumed the legal supremacy, of the church; and his firm

administration restored or extended some useful preroga­

tives, which had been neglected by the feeble emperors

of the west. He was not ignorant of the dignity and

importance of the Roman pontiff, to whom the vene­

rable name of Pope was now appropriated. The peace

or the revolt of Italy might depend on the character of

a wealthy and popular bishop, who claimed such ample

dominion, both in heaven and earth; who had been de­

clared in a numerous synod to be pure from all sin, and

exempt from all judgment.™ When the chair of St.

Peter was disputed by Symmachus and Laurence, they

appeared at his summons before the tribunal of an Arian

monarch, and he confirmed the election of the most

worthy or the most obsequious candidate. At the end

1 Devotissimus ac si Catbolious ; (Anonym. Vales, p. 720.)yet his offering was
no

more than two silver candlesticks (cerostrata) of the weight of seventy
pounds, far in­

ferior to the gold and gems of Constantinople and France. (Anastasius in Vit.
Pont,

in Hnrinisda, p. 34. edit. Paris.)

k The tolerating system of his reign (Ennodius, p. 1612. Anonym. Vales, p.
719.

Procop. Goth. lib. 1. c. 1. lib. 2. c.6.)may be studied in the Epist les of
Cassiodorius,

under the following heads: bishops, (Var. 1. 9. 8. 15. 24.11. 23.) immunities,
(1. 26.

2.29. 3P. ) churchlands,{4.17. 20.) sanctuaries, (2.11.3. 47.) church-
plate,(12. 20.)

discipline; (4. 44.) which prove at the same time that he was the head of the
church

as welt as of the state.

1 We may reject a foolish tale of his beheading a Catholic deacon who turned

Arian. (Theodor. Lector, no. 17.) Wby is Theodoric surnamed Afer? From Vafer f

(Vales, ad. loc.) A light conjecture.

"Knnodius, p. 1621,1622. 1636.1638. , His libel was approved and registered

(synodaliter) by a Roman council. (Baronius, A. D. 503. no. 6. Franciscns Pagi
in

Breviar. Pont. Rom. tom. 1. p. 242.)

D 2

