CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1Q5

aimed their arrows against a crowd of barbarians, who,

instead of a cuirass and helmet, were covered by a loose

garment of fur or linen. They paused, they trembled,

their ranks were confounded, and in the decisive moment

the Heruli, preferring glory to revenge, charged'with

rapid violence the head of the column. Their leader,

Sindbal, and Aligern, the Gothic prince, deserved the

prize of superior valour; and their example incited the

victorious troops to achieve with swords and spears the

destruction of the enemy. Buccelin, and the greatest

part of his army, perished on the field of battle, in the

waters of Vulturnus, or by the hands of the enraged pea­

sants: but it may seem incredible that a victory,' which

no more than five of the Alemanni survived, could be

purchased with the loss of fourscore Romans. Seven

thousand Goths, the relics of the war, defended the for­

tress of Campsatill the ensuing spring; and every mes­

senger of Narses announced the reduction of the Italian

cities, whose names were corrupted by the ignorance or

vanity of the Greeks.* After the battle of Casilinum,

Narses entered the capital; the arms and treasures of

the Goths, the Franks, and Alemanni, were displayed;

his soldiers, with garlands in their hands, chaunted the

praises of the conqueror; and Rome, for the last time,

beheld the semblance of a triumph.

After a reign of sixty years, the throne of the Gothic Settlement

kings was filled by the exarchs of Ravenna, the represen- a. d. 554

tatives in peace and war of the emperor of the Romans. —568'

Their jurisdiction was soon reduced to the limits of a

narrow province: but Narses himself, the first and most

powerful of the exarchs, administered above fifteen years

the entire kingdom of Italy. Like Belisarius, he had

deserved the honours of envy, calumny, and disgrace:

f Agalhias (lib. 2. p. 47.) has produced a Greek epigram of six lines on this
victory

-of Narses, which is favourably compared to the battles of Marathon and Platsea.  
The chief difference is indeed in their consequences—so trivial in the former
instance

—so permanent and glorious in the latter.

t The Beroi and Brincas of Theoplianes or his transcriber (p. 201.) must be
read

or understood Verona and Brixia.

