CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 367

risprudence. The claims of property, as far as they are

altered, by the mixture, the division, or the transforma­

tion of substances, are investigated with metaphysical

subtlety by the same civilians. '',

The personal title of the first proprietor must be de- orinherit-

termined by his death: but the possession, without any suooessfon.

appearance of change, is peaceably continued in his chil­

dren, the associates of his toil and the partners of his

wealth. This natural inheritance has been protected by

the legislators of every climate and age, and the father

is encouraged to persevere in slow and distant improve­

ments, by the tender hope, that a long posterity will en­

joy the fruits of his labour. The principle of hereditary

succession is universal, but the order has been variously

established by convenience oV caprice, by the spirit of

national institutions, or by some partial example, which

was originally decided by fraud or violence. The juris­

prudence of the Romans appears to have deviated from

the equality of nature, much less than the Jewish,* the

Athenian,' or the English institutions.8 On the, death

of a citizen, all his descendants, unless they were already

freed from his paternal power, were called to the inherit­

ance of his possessions. The insolent prerogative of

primogeniture was unknown : the two sexes were placed

on a just level; all the sons and daughters were entitled

to an equal portion of the patrimonial estate ; and if any

of the sons had been intercepted by a premature death,

his person was represented, and his share was divided by

his surviving children. On the failure of the direct line,

the right of succession must diverge to the collateral

e Among the patriarchs, the first-born enjoyed a mystic and spiritual
primogeni­

ture. (Genesis, 25.31.) In the land of Canaan be was entitled to a double
portion of

inheritance. (Deuteronomy, 41, 17. with La Clerc's judicious Commentary.)

'At Athens the sons were equal, but the poor daughters were endowed at the
dis­

cretion of their brothers. See the KMipixoi pleadings of Isssns (in the
seventh volume

of the Greek Orators), illustrated by the version and comment of sir William
Jones,

a scholar, a lawyer, and a man of genius.

I In England, the eldest son alone inherits all the land; a law, says the
orthodox

judge Blackstone, (Commentaries on the Laws of England, vol. 2. p. 215.)
unjust only

in the opinion of younger brothers. It may be of some political use in
sharpening

their industry.

