CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

who patiently endured the loss of the1 port, and of all

maritime supplies. The siege of Rome would perhaps

have been raised, if the liberality of Totila to the Isau-

rians had not encouraged some of their venal country­

men to copy the example of treason. In a dark night,

while the Gothic trumpet sounded on another side, they

silently opened the gate of St. Paul: the Barbarians

rushed into the city; and the flying garrison was inter­

cepted before they could reach the harbour of Centum-

cellae. A soldier trained in the school of Belisarius,

Paul of Cilicia, retired with four hundred men to the

mole of Hadrian. They repelled the Goths; but they

felt the approach of famine; and their aversion to the

taste of horse-flesh confirmed their resolution to risk the

event of a desperate and decisive sally. But their spirit

insensibly stooped to the offers of capitulation: they re­

trieved their arrears of pay, and preserved their arms

and horses, by enlisting in the service of Totila; their

chiefs, who pleaded a laudable attachment to their wives

and children in the east, were dismissed with honour;

and above four hundred enemies, who had taken refuge

in the sanctuaries, were saved by the clemency of the

victor. He no longer entertained a wish of destroying

the edifices of Rome,z which he now respected as the

seat of the Gothic kingdom: the senate and people were

restored to their country ; the means of subsistence were

liberally provided; and Totila, in the robe of peace, ex­

hibited the equestrian games of the circus. Whilst he

amused the eyes of the multitude, four hundred vessels

were prepared for the embarkation of his troops. The

cities of Rhegium and Tarentum were reduced: he passed

into Sicily, the object of his implacable resentment, and

the island was stripped of its gold and silver, of the fruits

1 The Romans were still attached to the mouumenU of their ancestors; and, ac­

cording to Procopius, (Goth. lib. 4. c. 22.) the galley or /Eneas, of a single
rank of

oars, twenty-five feet in breadth, one hundred and twenty in length, was
preserved

entire in the navaiia, near Monte Testaceo, at the foot of the Aventine.
(Nardini, Ro­

ma Antica, lib. 7. c. 9. p. 466. Donatus, Roma Antiqua, lib. 4. c. 13. p.
334.) But

all antiquity is ignorant of this relic.

