394 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP XLV.

forms and delays are necessary to guard the person and

property of the citizen; that the discretion of the judge is

the first engine of tyranny, and that the laws of a free

people should foresee and determine every question that

may probably arise in the exercise of power and the trans­

actions of industry. But the government of Justinian

united the evils of liberty and servitude: and the Romans

were oppressed at the same time by the multiplicity of

their laws and the arbitrary will of their master.

CHAP. XLV.

Reign of the younger Justin.—Emhassy of the Avars.—Their settlement on the Da­

nube.—Conquest of Italy by the Lomhards.—Adoption and reign of Tiberius.—

Of Maurice.—State of Italy under the Lomhards and exarebs.—Of Ravenna—

Distress of Rome.—Character and pontificate of Gregory I.

Death of During the last years of Justinian, his infirm mind was de-

A.SDn. 565, voted to heavenly contemplation, and he neglected the bu-

Nov. 14. siness of the lower world. His subjects were impatient of

the long continuance of his life and reign: yet all who

werecapableof reflection, apprehended the moment of his

death,which might involve the capital in tumult, and the

empire in civil war. Seven nephews" of the childish mo­

narch, the sons or grandsons of his brother and sister,

had been educated in the splendour of a princely for­

tune; they had been shewn in high commands to the

provinces and armies; their characters were known,

their followers were zealous, and as the jealousy of age

postponed the declaration of a successor, they might ex­

pect with equal hopes the inheritance of their uncle. He

expired in his palace after a reign of thirty-eight years;

and the decisive opportunity was embraced by the friends

of Justin the son of Vigilantia.b At the hour of mid-

1 See the family of Justin and Justinian in the Families Byzantinae of
Ducange.

p. 89—101. The devout civilians, Ludewig (in Vit. Justinian. p. 131.) and
Heinec-

cius, (Hist. Juris. Roman. p. 374.) have since illustrated the genealogy of
their fa­

vourite prince.

b In the histoty of Justin's elevation I have translated into simple and
concise

prose, the eight hundred verses of the two first books of Corippus, De
Laudibus Jus-

■tini. Appendix Hist. Byzant. p. 401—416, Rome, 1777.

