DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL*

planted in Ceylon, and the missionaries pursued the foot­

steps of commerce to the extremities of Asia." Two

Persian monks had long resided in China, perhaps in the

royal city of Nankin, the seat of a monarch addicted to-

foreign superstitions, and who actually received an em­

bassy from the Isle of Ceylon. Amidst their pious oc­

cupations they viewed with a curious eye the common

dress of the Chinese, the manufactures of silk, and the

myriads of silkworms, whose education (either on trees

or in houses) had once been considered as the labour of

queens/ They soon discovered that it was impracticable

to transport the short-lived insect, but that in the eggs

a numerous progeny might be preserved and multiplied

in a distant climate. Religion or interest had more

power over the Persian monks than the love of their

country: after a long journey, they arrived at Constan­

tinople, imparted their project to the emperor, and were

liberally encouraged by the gifts and promises of Justi­

nian. To the historians of that prince, a campaign at the

foot of Mount Caucasus has seemed more deserving of

a minute relation, than the labours of these missionaries

of commerce, who again entered China, deceived a jea­

lous people by concealing the eggs of the silkworm in a

hollow cane, and returned in triumph with the spoils of

the east. Under their direction, the eggs were hatched

at the proper season by the artificial heat of dung; the

worms were fed with mulberry leaves; they lived and la­

boured in a foreign climate: a sufficient number of but­

terflies was saved to propagate the race, and trees were

planted to supply the nourishment of the rising genera­

tions. Experience and reflection corrected the errors of

a new attempt, and the Sogdoite ambassadors acknow­

ledged, in the succeeding reign, that the Romans were

not inferior to the natives of China in the education of

e See the Christian missions in India, in Cosmas, (lib. 3. p. 178, 179. lib.
11.

p. 337.) and consult Aaseman. Bibliot. Orient. (tom. i. p. 413—548.)

f The invention, manufacture, and general use of silk in China, may be seen in

Dohalde. (Description Generale de la Chine, tom. 2. p. 165. 205—223.) The pro-

vince of Chckian is the most renowned both for quantity and quality.

