CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

or Mingrelia,* which* on three sides, is fortified by

the Iberian and Armenian mountains, and whose ma-^

ritime coast extends about two hundred miles, from

the neighbourhood of Trebizond to Dioscurias and the

confines of Circassia. Both the soil and climate are re­

laxed by excessive moisture; twenty-eight rivers, besides

the Phasis and his dependant streams, convey their wa­

ters to the sea; and the hollowness of the ground ap­

pears to indicate the subterraneous channels between

the Euxine and the Caspian. In the fields where wheat

or barley is sown, the earth is too soft to sustain the ac­

tion of the plough; but the gom, a small grain not un­

like the millet or coriander seed, supplies the ordinary

food of the people; and the use of bread is confined to

the prince and his nobles, Yet the vintage is more

plentiful than the harvest; and the bulk of the stems, as

well as the quality of the wine, display the unassisted

powers of nature. The same powers continually tend to

overshadow the face of the country with thick forests;

the timber of the hills, and the flax of the plains, contri­

bute to the abundance of naval stores; the wild and the

tame animals, the horse, the ox, and the hog, are re-r

markably prolific, and the name of the pheasant is ex­

pressive of his native habitation on the banks of the Pha­

sis. The gold mines to the south of Trebizond, which

are still worked with sufficient profit, were a subject of

national dispute between Justinian and Chosroes; and it

is not unreasonable to believe, that a vein of precious

metal may be equally diffused through the circle of the

hills, although these secret pleasures are neglected by the

tuay consult the geographical descriptions of Colchos, by Strabo, (lib. 11. p.
760—?

765.) and Pliny. (Hist. Natqr. 6.5.19,&c.)

x I shall quote, and have used, three modern descriptions of Mingrelia and the

adjacent countries. 1. Of the Pare Archangel! .Lsmberti, (Relations de Theve-

not, part 1. p. 31—52. with a map) who has all the knowledge and prejudices of
a

missionary. 2. Of Chardin: (Voyages en Perse, tom. 1. p. 54. 68—168.) his
obser­

vations are judicious; and his own adventures in the country are still more
instruc­

tive than his observations. 3. Of Peyssonnel: (Observations sur les Peuples
Bar-

hares, p. 49—51. 58.62. 64, 65. 71, &c. and a more recent treatise, Sur le
Commerce

de la Mer Noire, tom. 2. p. 1—53.) be had long resided at Caffa, as consul of
France ^

and his erudition is less valuable than bis experience.

