CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

food. The incessant rapine of their neighbours compell­

ed them to bury this treasure in the earth; but on the

appearance of a stranger, it was freely imparted by a peo­

ple, whose unfavourable character is qualified by the epi­

thets of chaste, patient, and hospitable. As their supreme

god, they adored an invisible master of the thunder.

The rivers and the nymphs obtained their subordinate

honours, and the popular worship was expressed in vows

and sacrifice. The Sclavonians disdained to obey a des­

pot, a prince, or even a magistrate; but their experience

was too narrow, their passions too headstrong, to com­

pose a system of equal law or general defence. Some

voluntary respect was yielded to age and valour* but

each tribe or village existed as a separate republic, and

all must be persuaded where none could be compelled.

They fought on foot, almost naked, and, except an un­

wieldy shield, without any defensive armour: their wea­

pons of offence were a bow, a quiver of small poisoned

arrows, and a long rope, which they dexterously threw

from a distance, and entangled their enemy in a running

noose. In the field, the Sclavonian infantry was dan­

gerous by their speed, agility, and hardiness: they swam,

they dived, they remained under water, drawing their

breath through a hollow cane; and a river or lake was

often the scene of their unsuspected ambuscade. But

these were the achievements of spies or stragglers; the

military art was unknown to the Sclavonians; their name

was obscure, and their conquests were inglorious.p

I have marked the faint and general outline of the ™

Sclavonians and Bulgarians, without attempting to de­

fine their intermediate boundaries, which were not ac­

curately known, or respected, by the barbarians them-

P For the name and nation, the situation and manners, of the Sclayonians, see
the

original evidence of the sixth century, in Procopius, (Goth. lib. 2. e. 26.
lib. 3. o. 14.)

and the emperor Mauritius or Mamice. (Stratagemat. lib. 2. c. 5. apud Mascou,
An-

Dotat. 31.) The Stratagems of Maurice have been printed only, as 1 understand,
at ,

the end of Scheffer's edition of Arrian's Tactics, at Upsal, 1661, (Fabric.
Bibliot.

Graeo. lib. 4. c. 8. torn. 3. p. 278.) a scarce, and hitherto, to me, an
inaccessible

book.

