CHAP. XL'ir.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 381'

bound with a chain of fifteen pounds weight; and his

misery was thrice exposed in the market-place, to solicit

the compassion of his friends and countrymen. At the

expiration of sixty days, the debt was discharged by the

loss of liberty or life ; the insolvent debtor was either put

to death, or sold in foreign slavery beyond the Tiber:

but if several creditors were alike obstinate and unrelent­

ing, they might legally dismember his body, and satiate

their revenge by his horrid partition. The advocates for

this savage law have insisted, that it must strongly ope­

rate in deterring idleness and fraud from contracting debts

which they are unable to discharge; but experience would

dissipate this salutary terror, by proving, that no credi­

tor could be found to exact this unprofitable penalty of;

life or limb. As the manners of Rome were insensibly

polished, the criminal code of the decemvirs was abolish­

ed by the humanity of accusers, witnesses, and judges;

and impunity became the consequence of immoderate

rigour. The Porcian and Valerian laws prohibited the

magistrates from inflicting on a free citizen any capital,

or even corporal punishment; and the obsolete statutes'

of blood were artfully, and perhaps truly, ascribed to the

spirit, not of patrician, but of regal, tyranny.

In the absence of penal laws and the insufficiency of Abolition

civil actions, the peace and justice of the city were im- of penal'0"

perfectly maintained by the private jurisdiction of thelaw*'

citizens. The malefactors who replenish our gaols, are

the outcasts of society, and the crimes for which they

suffer may be commonly ascribed to ignorance, poverty,

and brutal appetite. For the perpetration of similar

enormities, a vile pleheian might claim and abuse the sa­

cred character of a member of the republic: but on the

proof or suspicion of guilt, the slave, or the stranger,

was nailed to a cross, and this strict and summary justice

might be exercised without restraint over the greatest

part of the populace of Rome. Each family contained

a domestic tribunal, which was not confined, like that of

