CHAP. XLIII.) OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

brandishing his weapons, denounced implacable war

against the worshippers of fire. But the proposal of the

silk-trade was eluded; and notwithstanding the assu­

rances, and perhaps the wishes, of the Abyssinians, these

hostile menaces evaporated without effect. The Home-

rites were unwilling to abandon their aromatic groves^ to

explore a sandy desert, and to encounter, after all their

fatigues, a formidable nation from whom they had never

received any personal injuries. Instead of enlarging his

conquests, the king of ^Ethiopia was incapable of defend­

ing his possessions. Abrahah, the slave of a Roman

merchant of Adulis, assumed the sceptre of the Home-

rites; the troops of Africa were seduced by the luxury of

the climate; and Justinian solicited the friendship of the

usurper, who honoured, with a slight tribute, the supre­

macy of his prince. After a long series of prosperity, the

power of Abrahah was overthrown before the gates of

Mecca; his children were despoiled by the Persian con­

queror; and the ^Ethiopians were finally expelled from

the continent of Asia. This narrative of obscure and re­

mote events is not foreign to the decline and fall of the

Roman empire. If a Christian power had been main­

tained in Arabia, Mahomet must have been crushed in

his cradle, and Abyssinia would have prevented a revo­

lution which has changed the civil and religious state of

the world.h

CHAP. XLIII.

Rebellion! of Africa.—Restoration of the Gothic kingdom by Totila.—Loss and
re­

covery of Rome.—Final conquest of Italy by Narses.—Extinction of the Ostro­

goths.—Defeat of the Franks) and Alemanni.—Last victory, disgraoe, and death

of Belisarius.—Death and character of Justinian.—Comet, earthquakes, and

plague.

The review of the nations from the Danube to the

Nile has exposed on every side the weakness of the Ro-

h The revolutions of Yemen in the sixth century must he collected from
Procopins;

(Persic, lib. 1. c, 19, 20.) Thcophanes Brunt, (apod Phot. cod. 63. p. 60);
St.

