CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

loved, the famous Theodora," whose strange elevation

cannot be applauded as the triumph of female virtue.

Under the reign of Anastasius, the care of the wild

beasts maintained by the green faction of Constanti­

nople, was intrusted to Acacius, a native of the isle of

Cypress, who, from his employment, was surnamed the

master of the bears. This honourable office was given

after his death to another candidate, notwithstanding the

diligence of his widow, who had already provided a hus­

band and a successor. Acacius had left three daughters,

Comito," Theodora, and Anastasia, the eldest of whom

did not then exceed the age of seven years. On a so­

lemn festival, these helpless orphans were sent by their

distressed and indignant mother, in the garb of suppli­

ants, into the midst of the theatre: the green faction

received them with contempt, the blues with compassion;

and this difference, which sunk deep into the mind of

Theodora, was felt long afterward in the administration

of the empire. As they improved in age and beauty, tl>e

three sisters were successively devoted to the public and

private pleasures of the Byzantine people; and Theo­

dora, after following Comito on the stage, in the dress of

a slave, with a stool on her head, was at length permitted

to exercise her independent talents. She neither danced,

nor sung, nor played on the flute; her skill was con-*

fined to the pantomime arts; she excelled in buffoon

characters, and as often as the comedian swelled her

cheeks, and complained with a ridiculous tone and ges­

ture of the blows that were inflicted, the whole theatre

of Constantinople resounded with laughter and applause.

The beauty of Theodora* was the subject of more flat-

"For the life and manners of the empress Theodora, see the Anecdotes; more

especiatly c. 1—5. 9—17. with the learned notes of Alemannus—a reference to

which, is always implied.

* Comito, was afterward married to Sittas duke of Armenia, tho father perhaps, at  
least she might be the mother, of the empress Sophia. Two nephews of Theodora,

may be the sons of Anastasia. (Aleman. p. 30, 31.)

y Her statue was raised at Constantinople, on a porpbyry column. See Procnpius

(4e K<Uf. Uh. I. c. 11.) who gives her portrait in the Anecdotes, (c. 10.)
AJema"-

(p. 47.) produces one from a .Mosaic at Ravenna, loaded with pearls and
jewels, and

yet handsome. /

