CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

factured silk which they transported into Persia for the

use of the Roman empire. In the vain capital of China,

the Sogdian caravans were entertained as the suppliant

embassies of tributary kingdoms, and if they returned in

safety, the bold adventure was rewarded with exorbitant

gain. But the difficulty and perilous march from Sa-

marcand to the first town of Shensi, could not be per­

formed in less than sixty, eighty, or one hundred days:

as soon as they had passed the Jazartes, they entered the

desert; and the wandering hordes, unless they are re­

strained by armies and garrisons, have always considered

the citizen and the traveller as the objects of lawful

rapine. To escape the Tartar robbers, and the tyrants

of Persia, the silk caravans explored a more southern

road; they traversed the mountains of Thibet, de­

scended the streams of the Ganges or the Indus, and

patiently expected, in the ports of Guzerat and Mala­

bar, the annual fleets of the west.2 But the dangers of

the desert were found less intolerable than toil, hunger,

and the loss of time; the attempt was seldom renewed,

and the only European, who has passed that unfrequented

way, applauds his own diligence, that, in nine months

after his departure from Pekin, he reached the mouth

of the Indus. The ocean, however, was open to the

free communication of mankind. From the great river

to the tropic of Cancer, the provinces of China were sub­

dued and civilized by the emperors of the north; they

were filled about the time of the Christian era with

cities and men, mulberry-trees and their precious in­

habitants; and if the Chinese, with the knowledge of

the compass, had possessed the genius of the Greeks or

Phoenicians, they might have spread their discoveries

over the southern hemisphere. I am not qualified to

examine, and I am not disposed to believe, their distant

z The roads from China to Persia and Hindostan may be investigated in the
rela­

tions of Hacklayt and -Thevenot. (the amhassadors of Sharokh, Anthony
Jenkiusmi,

the I'ere Grenber, &o. See likewise Hanway's Travels, vol. 1. p. 345—357.) A

communication through Thibet has been lately explored by the English
sovereigns of

Bengal.

