DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP, XL.

saints: most of these churches were decorated with mar­

ble and gold; and their various situation was skilfully

chosen in a populous square, or a pleasant grove; on

the margin of the sea-shore, or on some lofty eminence

which overlooked the continents of Europe and Asia.

The church of the holy apostles at Constantinople, and

that of St. John at Ephesus, appear to have been framed

on the same model: their domes aspired to imitate the

cupolas of St. Sophia; but the altar was more judiciously

placed under the centre of the dome, at the junction of

four stately porticoes, which more accurately expressed

the figure of the Greek cross. The virgin of Jerusalem

might exult in the temple erected by her imperial votary

on a most ungrateful spot, which afforded neither ground

nor materials to the architect. A level was formed, by

raising part of a deep valley to the height of a mountain.

The stones of a neighbouring quarry were hewn into re­

gular forms; each block was fixed on a peculiar carriage,

drawn by forty of the strongest oxen, and the roads

were widened for the passage of such enormous weights.

Lebanon furnished her loftiest cedars for the timbers of

the church; and the seasonable discovery of a vein of

yed marble, supplied its beautiful columns, two of which,

the supporters of the exterior portico, were esteemed the

largest in the world. The pious munificence of the em­

peror was diffused over the holy land; and if reason

should condemn the monasteries of both sexes which

were built or restored by Justinian, yet charity must ap­

plaud the wells which he sunk, and the hospitals which

he founded, for the relief of the weary pilgrims. The

schi'smatical temper of Egypt was ill intitled to the royal

bounty; but in Syria and Africa some remedies were ap­

plied to the disasters of wars and earthquakes, and both

Carthage and Antioch, emerging from their ruins, might

revere the name of their gracious benefactor.p Almost

every saint in the calendar acquired the honours of a

P Justinian once gave forty-five centenaries of gold, (180,0001.) for the
repaira of

Antinch after the earthquake, (John Maiala, tom, 2. p. 14ti—■ 149.)

