28 ~ DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

of his life, in a moment of jealousy and resentment, he

prevented the choice of the Romans, by nominating a

pope in the palace of Ravenna. The danger and furious

contests of a schism were mildly restrained, and the last

decree of the senate was enacted to extinguish, if it were

possible, the scandalous venality of the papal elections.*

vices of I have descanted with pleasure on the fortunate con-

j»jorern jij.i^ of jta]y . kut our fancy must not hastily conceive

that the golden age of the poets, a race of men without

vice or misery, was realised under the Gothic conquest.

The fair prospect was sometimes overcast with clouds;

the wisdom of Theodoric might be deceived, his power

might be resisted, and the declining age of the monarch

was sullied with popular hatred and patrician blood. In

the first insolence of victory, he had been tempted to de­

prive the whole party of Odoacer of the civil and even

the natural rights of society ;° a tax unseasonably im­

posed after the calamities of war, would have crushed the

rising agriculture of Liguria; a rigid pre-emption of corn,

which was intended for the public relief, must have ag­

gravated the distress of Campania. These dangerous

projects were defeated by the virtue and eloquence of

Epiphanius and Boethius, who, in the presence of Theo­

doric himself, successfully pleaded the cause of the-peo-

ple :p but if the royal ear was open to the voice of truth,

a saint and a philosopher are not always to be found at

the ear of kings. The privileges of rank, or office, or fa­

vour, were too frequently abused by Italian fraud and

Gothic violence, and the avarice of the king's nephew

was publicly exposed, at first by the usurpation, and af-

n See Cassiodorios, (Var. 8.15.9.15,16.) Anastasius, (in Symmaeho, p. 31.) and

the eighteenth Annotation of Mascon. Baronius, Pagi, and most of the Catholic

doctors, confess, with an angry growl, this Gothic usurpation.

° He disabled them—a licentia testandi; and all Italy mourned—lamentahili jus-

'titio. I wish to believe, that these penalties were enacted against the
rebels, who

had violated theiroathof allegiance ; bnt the testimony of Ennodius (p.
1675—1678.)

is the more weighty, as be lived and died under the reign of Theodoric.

P Ennodias, in Vit. Epiphan, p. 1689,1690. Boethius de Consolatione
Philosophise,

lib. 1. pros. 4. p. 45—47. Respect, but weigh, the passions of the saint and
the

senator; and fortify or alleviate thsir complaints by the various hints of
Cassiodorioi.

(2. 8. 4. 36. 8. 5.)

