374 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

and answer. Do you promise to pay me one hundred

pieces of gold? was the solemn interrogation of Seius.

I do promise—was the reply of Sempronius. The friends

of Sempronius, who answered for his ability and inclina­

tion, might be separately sued at the option of Seius: and

the benefit of partition, or order of reciprocal actions,

insensibly deviated from the strict theory of stipulation.

The most cautious and deliberate consent was-justly re­

quired to sustain the validity of a gratuitous promise;

and the citizen who might have obtained a legal security,

incurred the suspicion of fraud, and paid the forfeit of

his neglect. But the ingenuity of the civilians success­

fully laboured to convert simple engagements into the

form of solemn stipulations. The praetors, as the guar­

dians of social faith, admitted every rational evidence of

a voluntary and deliberate act, which in their tribunal

produced an equitable obligation, and for which they

gave an action and a remedy/

Benefits, 2. The obligations of the second class, as they were

contracted by the delivery of a thing, are marked by the

civilians with the epithet of real.2 A grateful return is

due to the author of a benefit; and whoever is intrusted

with the property of another, has bound himself to the

sacred duty of restitution. In the case of a friendly loan,

the merit of generosity is on the side of the lender only;

in a deposit, on the side of the receiver: but in a pledge,

and the rest of the selfish commerce of ordinary life, the

benefit is compensated by an equivalent, and the obliga­

tion to restore is variously modified by the nature of the

transaction. The Latin language very happily expresses

the fundamental difference between the commodaium

and the mutuum, which our poverty is reduced to con-

J The Jus Pratorium de Pactis et Transactinnibus is a separate and
satisfactory

treatise of Gerard Noodt. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 483—564.) And 1 will here observe

that the universities of Holland and Brandenburgl], in the beginning of the
present

century, appear to have studied the civil law on the most jnst and liberal
principles.

1 The nice and various subject of contracts by consent is spread over four
books

(17—20.) of the Pandects, and is one of the parts best deserving of the
attention of

an English student.

