CHAP.'XL.] Of1'THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 80

their fantastic capitals. A variety of ornaments and fi­

gures was curiously expressed <h mosaic; and the images

of Christ, of the Virgin, of saints, and of angels, which

have been defaced by Turkish fanaticism, were danger­

ously exposed to the superstition of the Greeks. Ac­

cording to the sanctity of each object the precious me­

tals wrere distributed in thin leaves or in solid masses.

The balustrade of the choir, the capitals of the pillars,

the ornaments of the doors and galleries, were of gilt

bronze; the spectator was dazzled by the glittering as­

pect of the cupola; the sanctuary contained forty thou­

sand pound weight of silver; and the holy vases and

vestments of the altar were of the purest gold, enriched

with inestimable gems. Before the structure of the

church had risen two cubits above the ground, 45,200/.

were already consumed ; and the whole expense amount- R^hes.

ed to 320,000/.; each reader, according to the measure

of his belief, may estimate their value either in gold or

silver; but the sum of 1,000,000/. sterling is the result

of the lowest computation. A magnificent temple is a

laudable monument of nation altaste and religion, and

the enthusiast who entered the dome of St. Sophia, might

be tempted to suppose that it was the residence, or even

the workmanship, of the Deity. Yet how dull is the

artifice, how insignificant is the labour, if it be compared

with the formation of the vilest insect that crawls upon

the surface of the temple!

• So minute a description of an edifice which time has Churches

respected, may attest the truth, and excuse the relation iTces?

of the innumerable works, both in the capital and pro­

vinces, which Justinian constructed on a smaller scale

and less durable foundations.0 In Constantinople alone,

and the adjacent suburbs, he dedicated twenty-five

churches to the honour of Christ, the Virgin, and the

° The six books of the Edifices of Procopius are thus distributed.—The first
is

confined to Constantinople; the second incudes Mesopotamia opd-Sjria; the
third,

Armenia and the Euxine; the fourth, Europe; the fifth, Asia Minor and
Palestine;

the ahth, Egypt and Africa. Italy is forgot by the emperor or the historian,
who

published this work of adulation before the dale (A, D. 555.) of its final
conquest.

VOL. V. H

