CHAP. XLIv] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 185

garrison. Datius, the orthodox bishop, who had se­

duced his countrymen to rebellion' and ruin, escaped to

the luxury and honours of the Byzantine court ;s but

the clergy, perhaps the Arian clergy, were slaughtered

at the foot of their own altars by the defenders of the

Catholic faith. Three hundred thousand males were

reported to be slain ;h the female sex, and the more pre­

cious spoil, was resigned to the Burgundians; and the

houses, or at least the walls of Milan, were levelled with

the ground. The Goths, in their last moments, were Destruction

revenged by the destruction of a city, second only t0ofM,llu'-

Rome in size and opulence, in the splendour of its build­

ings, or the number of its inhabitants; and Belisarius

sympathized alone in the fate of his deserted and devoted

friends. Encouraged by this successful inroad, Theode-

bert himself, in the ensuing spring, invaded the plains

of Italy with an army of one hundred thousand barba­

rians.1 The king, and some chosen followers, were

mounted on horseback, and armed with lances; the in­

fantry, without bows or spears, were satisfied with a

shield, a sword, and a double-edged battle-axe, which, in

their hands, became a deadly and unerring weapon.

Italy trembled at the march of the Franks; and both

the Gothic prince and the Roman general, alike ignorant

of their designs, solicited, with hope and terror, the

friendship of these dangerous allies. Till he had secured

the passage of the Po on the bridge of Pavia, the grand-

r Baronius applauds his treason, and justifies the Catholio bishops—qui ne sub
he-

retico principe degant omnem lapidem movent—an useful caution. The more
rational

Muratori (Annali d' Italia, torn. 5. p, 54.) hints at the guilt of perjury,
and blames at

least the imprudence of Datius.

K St. Datius was more successful against devils than against barbarians. He
tra­

velled with a numerous retinue, and occupied at Corinth a large house.
(Baronius, A. •

D. 538. no. 89. A. D. 539. no. 20.)

b MupiaSec Tjiaxwra. (compare Procopius, Goth. lib. 2.0. 7. 21.) Yet such
popu­

lation is incredible; and the second or third city of Italy need not repine if
we only

decimate the numbers of the present text. Both Milan and Genoa revived in less

than thirty years. (Paul Diacon. de Gestis Langobard, lib. 2. c. 38.)

1 Besides Procopius, perhaps too Roman, see the Chronicles of Marius and Mar-

cellinns, Jornandes, (in Success. Regn. in Muratori, torn. 1. p. 241.)and
Gregory of

Tours, (lib. 3. c. 32. in torn. 2. of the Historians of France.) Gregory
supposes a

defeat of Belisarius, who, in Aimoin, (de Gestis Franc, lib. 2. c. 23. in
torn. 3. p. 59.)

is slain by the Franks.

VOL. V. O

