CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the neighbouring country, and the territory of Constan­

tinople, a paradise of nature, was adorned with the lux­

urious gardens and villas of the senators and opulent ci­

tizens. But their wealth served only to attract the bold

and rapacious barbarians; the noblest of the Romans,

in the bosom of peaceful indolence, were led away into

Scythian captivity, and their sovereign might view, from

his palace, the hostile flames which were insolently spread

to the gates of the imperial city. At the distance only of

forty miles, Anastasius was constrained to establish a last

frontier; his long wall,of sixty miles from the Propontis to

the Euxine, proclaimed the impotence of his arms; and

as the danger became more imminent, new fortifications

were added by the indefatigable prudence of Justinian.*

Asia Minor, after the submission of the Isaurians,d

remained without enemies and without fortifications, security of

Those bold savages, who had disdained to be the sub- the"™-'

jects of Galienus, persisted two hundred and thirty years J"*8'^

in a life of independence and rapine. The most suc­

cessful princes respected the strength of the mountains

and the despair of the natives; their fierce spirit was

sometimes soothed with gifts, and sometimes restrained

by terror; and a military count, with three legions, fixed

his permanent and ignominious station in the heart of

the Roman provinces." But no sooner was the vigilance

of power relaxed or diverted, than the light-armed squa­

drons descended from the hills, and invaded the peaceful

plenty of Asia. Although the Isaurians were not re­

markable for stature or bravery, want rendered them

bold, and experience made them skilful in the exercise of

predatory war. They advanced with secrecy and speed

c See tjje long wall in Evagrius. (lib, 4. c. 38.) This whole article is drawn
from

the fourth book of the Edifices, except Anchialus. (lib. 3. c. 7.)

d Turn back to vol. 1. p. 330. In the coarse of this history, I have sometimes

mentioned, and mnch oftener slighted, the hasty iuroads of the Isaurians,
which were

not attended with any consequences.

'Trebellius Pollio in Hist. August, p. 107. who lived under Diocletian, or
Con-

stantine. Nee likewise Pancirolus ad Not. Imp. Orient. c. 115.141. See Cod.

Theodos. lib. 9. tit. 35.1eg. 37. with a copious collective Annotation of
Coilefroy,

tom. 3. p. 2S6, 2a7.

