CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

rank and merit had been long depressed by the jealousy

of the court. Theodora had injured him in the rights

of a private citizen, the marriage of his children, and the

testament of his brother; and although his conduct was

pure and blameless, Justinian was displeased that he should

be thought worthy of the confidence of the malecontents.

The life of Germanus was a lesson of implicit obedience;

he nobly refused to prostitute his name and character in

the factions of the circus: the gravity of his manners was

tempered by innocent cheerfulness; and his riches were

lent without interest to indigent or deserving friends.

His valour had formerly triumphed over the Sclavonians

of the Danube and the rebels of Africa: the first report

of his promotion revived the hopes of the Italians: and

he was privately assured, that a crowd of Roman desert­

ers would abandon, on his approach, the standard of

Totila. His second marriage with Malasontha, the

grand-daughter of Theodoric, endeared Germanus to the

Goths themselves; and they marched with reluctance

against the father of a royal infant, the last offspring of

the line of Amali.d A splendid allowance was assigned

by the emperor : the general contributed his private for­

tune ; his two sons were popular and active; and he sur­

passed, in the promptitude and success of his levies, the

expectation of mankind. He was permitted to select

some squadrons of Thracian cavalry: the veterans, as

well as the youth of Constantinople and Europe, engaged

their voluntary service; and as far as the heart of Ger­

many, his fame and liberality attracted the aid of the bar­

barians. The Romans advanced to Sardica; an army of

Sclavonians fled before their march; but within two

days of their final departure, the designs of Germanus

were terminated by his malady and death. Yet the im­

pulse which he had given to the Italian war still continued

nancies, fratri sno, Alemannus has proved that he was the son of the emperor's

brother.

d Conjuncta Aniciorum gent cam Amala stirpe spem ad boo utri usque generis

promittit. (Jornandes, e. 60. p. 703.) He -wrote at Ravenna before the death
of

Totila. '.' ..' .'-v . .'.. . i

VOL. V. U

