12 DECLtNE AND TALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

in the midst of a solemn banquet, was stabbed by the

hand, or at least by the command, of his rival. Se­

cret and effectual orders had been previously dispatched;

the faithless and rapacious mercenaries, at the same mo­

ment, and without resistance, were universally massa­

cred; and the royalty of Theodoric was proclaimed by

the Goths, with the tardy, reluctant, ambiguous consent

of the emperor of the east. The design of a conspiracy

was imputed, according to the usual forms, to the pros­

trate tyrant; but his innocence, and the guilt of his con­

queror/ are sufficiently proved by the advantageous treaty

which force would not sincerely have granted, nor weak­

ness have rashly infringed. The jealousy of power, and

the mischiefs of discord, may suggest a more decent

apology, and a sentence less rigorous may be pronounced

against a crime which was necessary to introduce into

Reign of Italy a generation of public felicity. The living: author

ting of of this felicity was audaciously praised in his own presence

a?d. 493, hy sacred and profane orators ;z but history (in his time

a'd'sk was mute anc* inglorious) has not left any just repre-

Ang. 30. sentation of the events which displayed, or of the defects

which clouded, the virtues of Theodoric* One record

of his fame, the volume of public epistles composed by

Cassiodorius in the royal name is still extant, and has ob­

tained more implicit credit, than it seems to deserve.1"

y Procopius (Gothic. lib. 1. c. 1.) approves himself an impartial sceptic ;
■fajri . ..

SoXefM rpowai utritfa. Cassiodorius' (in Chron.) and Ennodias (p. 1604.) are
loyal

and credulous; and the testimony of the Valesian Fragment (p. 718.) may
justify

their belief. Marcellinus spits the venom of a Greek subject—perjuriis
illectas, in-

terfectusque est. (in Chron.)

* The sonoroas and servile oration of Knnodius was pronounced at Milan or Ra-  
Tenua in the years 507 or 508. (Sirmond, tom. 1. p. 1615.) Two or three years
after­

ward, the orator was rewarded with the hishoprick of Pavia, which he held till
his

death, in the year 521. (Dupin Bibliot. Eccles. tom. 5. p. 11—14. See Saxii

Onomasticon, tom. 2. p. 12.)

* Our best materials are occasional hints from Procopius and the Valesian Frag­  
ment, which was discovered by Sirmond, and is published at the end of Ammianus

Marcellinus. The author's name is unknown, and-his style is harharous; but in
his

various facts he exhihits the knowledge, without the passions, of a
contemporary.

The president Montesquieu had formed the plan of a history of Theodoric, which
at

a distance might appear a rich and interesting subject.

■ The best edition of the Variarumtibri 12. is that of Joh. Garretius ;
(Rotomagi,

1679. in Opp. Cassiodor. 2 vol. in fol.) but they deserved and required such
an

editor as the Marquis Scipio Mafiei, who thought of publishing them at Verona.

The Barhara Etegama (as it is ingeniously named by Tiraboschi) is never
simple,

and seldom perspicuous. . .

