160 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

pence, two Roman generals, who had entered the pro­

vince of Dalmatia, were defeated and slain by the Gothic

troops. From blind and abject despair, Theodatus ca^

priciously rose to groundless and fatal presumption/

and dared to receive, with menace and contempt, the

ambassador of Justinian; who claimed his promise, so­

licited the allegiance of his subjects, and boldly asserted

the inviolable privilege of his own character. The

march of Belisarius dispelled this visionary prideand

as the first campaign11 was employed in the reduction of

Sicily, the invasion of Italy is applied by Procopius to

the second year of the Gothic war.'

Belisarius After Belisarius had left sufficient garrisons in Paler-

lnvades O .

Italy, and mo and Syracuse, he embarked his troops at Messina,

Naples, and landed them, without resistance, on the opposite

a. d. 8o7. shores Gf Rhegium. A Gothic prince, who had married

the daughter of Theodatus, was stationed with an army

to guard the entrance of Italy; but he imitated, without

scruple, the example of a sovereign, faithless to his public

and private duties. The perfidious Ebermor deserted

with his followers to the Roman camp, and was dismiss­

ed to enjoy the servile honours of the Byzantine court.5

From Rhegium to Naples; the fleet and army of Belisa­

rius, almost always in view of each other, advanced

near three hundred miles along the sea-coast. The peo­

ple of Brattium, Lucania, and Campania, who abhorred

the name and- religion of the Goths, embraced the spe-

'P A Sibylline oracle was ready to pronounce—Africa capta mundus cam nato pe-

rihit; a sentence of portentous amhiguity, (Gothio. lib. 1. c. 7.) which has
been

published in unknown characters by Opsopaeus, an editor of the oracles. The
Pere

JMaltret has promised a commentary; but all his promises have been vain and
fruit­

less.' , .'

i In his chronology, imitated in some degree from Thucydides, Procopius begins

each spring the years of Justinian and of the Gothic war; and his first era
coincides

with the first of April 535, and not 536, according to the Annals of Baronios
(Pagi

Crit. tom. 2. p. 555, who is followed by Muratori and the editors of
Sigonius). Yet

in some passages we are at a loss to reconcile the dates of Procopius with
himself,

and with the Chronicle of Marcellinus.

'The series of the first Gothic war is represented by Procopius (lib. 1. c.
5—29.

lib. 2. c. 1—30. lib. 3. c. 1.) till the captivity of Vitiges. With the aid of
Sigonius

(0|>p. tom. 1. de Imp. Occident. lib. 17,18.) and Muratori (Annali d'ltalia,
tom. 5.)

I have gleaned some few additional facts.

• Jornandes, de Rebus Geticis, C. 60. p, 702, edit Grot, and tom.l. p. 221.
Mu-

raUiii, dc Success. Kegn. p. 241.

