318 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV

jealous spirit of an aristocracy, which had yielded with

reluctance to the just demands of the people. But the

substance of the twelve tables was adapted to the state of

the city ; and the Romans had emerged from barbarism,

since they were capable of studying and embracing the

institutions of their more enlightened neighbours. A

wise Ephesian was driven by envy from his native coun­

try; before he could reach the shores of Latium, he had

observed the various forms of human nature and civil

society; he imparted his knowledge to the legislators of

Rome, and a statue was erected in the Forum to the per­

petual memory of Hermodorus.n The names and divi­

sions of the copper-money, the sole coin of the infant

state, were of Dorian origin :° the harvests of Campania

and Sicily relieved the wants of a people whose agricul­

ture was often interrupted by war and faction; and since

the trade was established/ the deputies, who sailed from

the Tiber, might return from the same harbours with a

more precious cargo of political wisdom. The colonies

of Great Greece had transported and improved the arts

of their mother-country. Guma? and Rhegium, Croto-

na and Tarentum, Agrigentum and Syracuse, were in

the rank of the most flourishing cities. The disciples

of Pythagoras applied philosophy to the use of govern­

ment; the unwritten laws of Charondas accepted the

aid of poetry and music,q and Zaleucus framed the re­

public of the Locrians, which stood without alteration

above two hundred years/ From a similar motive of na-

twelve tables were of brass—areas: in the text of Pomponins we read eboreas ;
for

which Scaliger has substituted roboreas. (Bynkershoek, p. 286.) Wood, brass,

and ivory, might be successively employed.

"His exile is mentioned by Cicero, (Tusculanc Question. 5. 36.) his statue by

Pliny. (Hist. Nat. 34.11.) The letter, dream, and prophecy, of Heraclitus, are
alike

spurious. (Epistulcc Grcec. Divers, p. 337.)

° This intricate subject of the Sicilian and Roman money is ably discussed by
Dr.

Bentley, (Dissertation on the Epistles of Phalaris, p. 427—479.) whose powers
in

this controversy were called forth by honour and resentment.

B The Romans, or their allies, sailed as far as the fair promontory of Africa.
(Polyb.

lib. 3'. p. 177. edit. Casaubon, in folio.) Their voyages to Camae, &o. are
noticed

Livy and Dionysius.

1 This circumstance would alone prove the antiquity of Charondas, the
legislator

of Rhegium and Catana, who, by a strange error of Diodorus Siculus, (tom. 1.
lib. 12.

p. 485—492.) is celebrated long afterward as the author of the policy of
Thurium.

'^Zaleucus, whose existence has been rashly attacked, had the merit a»d glory"
of

