CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

suls tasted the misery which they had spurned or relieved,

wandered in tattered garments through the streets of the

city, and begged their bread, perhaps without success,

before the gates of their hereditary mansions. The

riches of Rusticiana, the daughter of Symmachus and

widow of Boethius, had been generously devoted -to

alleviate the calamities of famine. But the Barbarians

were exasperated by the report, that she had prompted

the people to overthrow the statues of the great Theodo-

ric; and the life of that venerable matron would have

been sacrificed to his memory, if Totila had not respect­

ed her birth, her virtues, and even the pious motive of,

her revenge. The next day he pronounced two orations,

to congratulate and admonish his victorious Goths, and

to reproach the senate, as the vilest of slaves, with their

perjury,folly, and ingratitude; sternly declaring, that their

estates and honours were justly forfeited to the compa­

nions of his-arms. Yet he consented to forgive their

revolt, and the senators repaid his clemency by dispatch­

ing circular letters to their tenants and vassals in the

provinces of Italy, strictly to enjoin them to desert the

standard of the Greeks, to cultivate their lands in peace,

and to learn from their masters the duty of obedience to

a Gothic sovereign. Against the cities which had so

long delayed the course of his victories he appeared in­

exorable: one-third of the walls, in different parts, were

demolished by his command ; fire and engines prepared

to consume, or subvert, the most stately works of anti­

quity: and the world was astonished by the fatal decree,

that Rome should be changed into a pasture for cattle.

The firm and temperate remonstrance of Belisarius sus­

pended the execution; he warned the Barbarian not to

sully his fame by the destruction of those monuments,

which were the glory of the dead, and the delight of the

living; and Totila was persuaded, by the advice of an

enemy,to preserve Rome as the ornament of hiskingdom,

or the fairest pledge of peace and reconciliation. When

