CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 455

chagan had never seen an elephant; and his curiosity

was excited by the strange, and perhaps fabulous portrait

of that wonderful animal. At his command, one of the

largest elephants of the imperial stables was equipped with

stately caparisons, and conducted by a numerous train to

the royal village in the plains of Hungary. He surveyed

the enormous beast with surprise, with disgust, and pos­

sibly with terror; and smiled at the vain industry of the

Romans, who, in search of such useless rarities, could

explore the limits of the land and sea. He wished, at

the expense of the emperor, to repose in a golden bed.

The wealth of Constantinople, and the skilful diligence

of her artists, were instantly devoted to the gratification

of his caprice; but when the work was finished, he reject­

ed with scorn a present so unworthy the majesty of a

great king." These were the casual sallies of his pride,

but the avarice of the chagan was a more steady and

tractable passion; a rich and regular supply of silk appa­

rel, furniture, and plate, introduced the rudiments of art

and luxury among the tents of the Scythians; their ap­

petite was stimulated by the pepper and cinnamon of In­

dia ;b the annual subsidy or tribute was raised from four­

score to one hundred and twenty thousand pieces of gold;

and after each hostile interruption, the payment of the

arrears, with exorbitant interest, was always made the

first condition of the new treaty. In the language of a

barbarian without guile, the prince of the Avars affected

to complain of the insincerity of the Greeks,0 yet he was

not inferior to the most civilized nations in the refine­

ments of dissimulation and perfidy. As the successor of

the Lombards, the chagan asserted his claim to the im­

portant city of Sirmium, the ancient bulwark of the 111}%

» Theopbylact, lib. 1. c. 5, 6.

b Even in the Held, the chagan delighted in the use of these aromatics. He
solicited

as a gift, IrfaiAC jutgvgMc, and received TMrip iuu fyvKhv/ Iviaiv, juwmv t«
xat tot Xtya-

juivov xoa-rov. Theopbylact, lib. 7. c. 13. The Europeans of the ruder ages
consumed

more spices in their meat and drink than is compatible with the delicacy of a
modern

palace. Vie Privee dcs Francois, tom. 2. p. 162, 163.

c Theopbylact, lib. 6. c. 6. lib. 7. c. 15. The Greek historian confesses the
truth

and justice of his reproach. ,

