IT PREFACE. -»

have carefully marked the secondary evidence, on whose faith

a passage or a fact were reduced to depend.

I shall soon revisit the banks of the lake of Lausanne, a

country which I have known and loved from my early youth.

Under a mild government, amidst a beauteous landscape, in

a life of leisure and independence, and among a people of

easy and elegant manners, I have enjoyed, and may again

hope to enjoy, the varied pleasures or retirement and society.

But I shall ever glory in the name and character of an Eng­

lishman: I am proud of my birth in a free and enlightened

country; and the approbation of that country is the best and

most honourable reward of my labours. Were I ambitious

of any other patron than the public, I would inscribe this

work to a Statesman, who, in a long, a stormy, and at length

an unfortunate administration, had many political opponents,

almost without a personal enemy; who has retained, in his

fall from power,many faithful and disinterested friends; and

who, under the pressure of severe infirmity, enjoys the lively

vigour of his mind, and the felicity of his incomparable tem­

per. Lord North will permit me to express the feelings of

friendship in the language of truth: but even truth and

friendship should be silent, if he still dispensed the favours

of the crown. . .

In a remote solitude, vanity may still whisper in my ear,

that my readers, perhaps, may inquire, whether, in the con­

clusion of the present work, I am now taking an everlasting

farewell. They shall hear all that I know myself, all that I

could reveal to the most intimate friend. The motives of

action or silence are now equally balanced; nor can 1 pro­

nounce in my most secret thoughts on which side the scale

will preponderate. I cannot dissemble that six ample quartos

must have tried, and may have exhausted, the indulgence of

the Public; that in the repetition of similar attempts, a suc­

cessful author has much more to lose, than he cart hope to

gain; that I am now descending into the vale of years; and

that the most respectable of my countrymen, the men whom

I aspire to imitate, have resigned the pen of history about

the same period of their lives. Yet I consider that the an­

nals of ancient and modern times may afford many rich and

interesting subjects; that I am still possessed of health and

leisure; that by the practice of writing, some skill and faci­

lity must be acquired; and that, in the ardent pursuit of

