CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 405

Whatever might be the grounds of his security, Al- Conquest

boin neither expected nor encountered a Roman army part of

in the field. He ascended the Julian Alps, and lookedfheLom-

down with contempt and desire on the fruitful plains to AarDs'568

which his victory communicated the perpetual appella- 570.

tion of Lombardy. A faithful chieftain, and a select

band, were stationed at Forum Julii, the modern Friuli,

to guard the passes of the mountains. The Lombards

respected the strength of Pavia, and listened to the

prayers of the Trevisans: their slow and heavy multi­

tudes proceeded to occupy the palace and city of Verona;

and Milan, now rising from her ashes, was invested by

the powers of Alboin five months after his departure

from Pannonia. Terror preceded his march; he found

every where, or he left, a dreary solitude; and the pu­

sillanimous Italians presumed, without a trial, that the

stranger was invincible. Escaping to lakes, or rocks, or

morasses, the affrighted crowds concealed some frag­

ments of their wealth, and delayed the moment of their

servitude. Paulinus, the patriarch of Aquileia, removed

his treasures, sacred and profane, to the isle of Grado,3

and his successors were adopted by the infant republic of

Venice, which was continually enriched by the public

calamities. Honoratus, who filled the chair of St. Am­

brose, had credulously accepted the faithless offers of a

capitulation; and the archbishop, with the clergy and

nobles of Milan, were driven by the perfidy of Alboin to

seek a refuge in the less accessible ramparts of Genoa.

Along the maritime coast, the courage of the inhabitants

was supported by the facility of supply, the hopes of re­

lief, and the power of escape; but from the Trentine hills

in the last chapter of the first book, and the seven first chapters of the
second book,

of Paul the deacon.

* Which from this translation was called New Aquileia, (Chron. Venet. p. 3.)

•The patriarch of Grado soon became the first citizen of the republic, (p. 9.
&c.) but

his seat was not removed to Venice till the jear 1450. He is now decorated
with

titles and honours; but the genius of the churoh has bowed to that of the
state, and

the government of a Catholic city is strictly presby terian. Thomassin,
Discipline de

TEglise, tom. 1. p. 156, 157. 161—165. Amelot de la Houssaye, Goayernement

de Venise, tom. 1. p. 256—261.

