102 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLi

drawn sword, compelled the Persians to vanquish; and

before it was sheathed, fourscore thousand of the in­

habitants had expiated the blood of their companions.

After the siege of Amida, the war continued three

years, and the unhappy frontier tasted the full mea­

sure of its calamities. The gold of Anastasius was

offered too late, the number of his troops was defeated by

the number of their generals; the country was stripped

of its inhabitants, and both the living and the dead were

abandoned to the wild beasts of the desert. The re­

sistance of Edessa, and the deficiency of spoil, inclined

the mind of Cabades to peace; he sold his conquests for

an exorbitant price: and the same line, though marked

with slaughter and devastation, still separated the two

empires. To avert the repetition of the same evils,

Anastasius resolved to found a new colony, so strong,

that it should defy the power of the Persian, so far ad­

vanced toward Assyria, that its stationary troops might

defend the province by the menace or operation of of-

Foriiiica- fensive war, For this purpose, the town of Dara/ four-

Data.0 teen miles from Nisibis, and four days' journey from

the Tigris, was peopled and adorned; the hasty works

of Anastasius were improved by the perseverance of Jus­

tinian; and without insisting on places less important,

the fortifications of Dara may represent the military ar­

chitecture of the age. The city was surrounded with

two walls, and the interval between them of fifty paces,

afforded a retreat to the cattle of the besieged. The in-i

ner wall was a monument of strength and beauty: it

measured sixty feet from the ground, and the height of

the towers was one hundred feet; the loop-holes from

whence an enemy might be annoyed with missile wea­

pons, were small but numerous: the soldiers were planted

along the rampart, under the shelter of double galleries,

J The description of Dara is amply and correotlj given by Procopins. (Persic,
lib.

1. c. 10. lib. 2. c. 13. De Etlific. lib. 2. c. 1—3. lib. 3rc. 5.) See the
situation in

d'Anviile (l'Euphrate et le Tigre, u. 53—55.), though he seems to doable the
inter-

tal between Dara and Nisibis.

