CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 199

tained the sentence of his fate. "You cannot be igno­

rant how much you have deserved my displeasure. I am

not insensible of the services of Antonina. To her me­

rits and intercession I have granted your life, and permit

you to retain a part of your treasures, which might be

justly forfeited to the state. Let your gratitude, where

it is due, be displayed, not in words, but in your future

behaviour." I know not how to believe or to relate the

transports with which the hero is said to have received

this ignominious pardon. He fell prostrate before his

wife, he kissed the feet of his saviour, and he devoutly

promised to live the grateful and submissive slave of An­

tonina. A fine of one hundred and twenty thousand

pounds sterling was levied on the fortunes of Belisarius;

and with the office of count, or master of the royal sta­

bles, he accepted the conduct of the Italian war. At his

departure from Constantinople, his friends, and even the

public, were persuaded, that as soon' as he regained his

freedom, he would renounce his dissimulation; and that

his wife, Theodora, and perhaps the emperor himself,

would be sacrificed to the just revenge of a virtuous rebel.

Their hopes were deceived; and the unconquerable pa­

tience and loyalty of Belisarius appear either below or

above the character of a MAN.b

CHAP. XLII.

Slnte of the harharic world.—Establishment of the Lomhards on the Dannbe.—

Tribes and iuroads of the Sclavonians.—Origin, empire, and emhassies of the

Turks.—The flight of the Avars.—Chosroes I. or Nushirvan, king of Persia.—His

prosperous reign and wars with the Romans.—The Cholchian or Lazic war.—The

^Ethiopians.

Our estimate of personal merit is relative to the com- weakness

mon faculties of mankind. The aspiring efforts of ge- Pire °r jus-

nius, or virtue, cither in active or speculative life, are a'd"^?-

—565.

b The continnator of the chronicle of Marcellinus gives, in a few decent
words,

the substance of the Anecdotes.—Belisarius de Oriente evocatus, in ofl'unsam
pe-

riculumque incurreus grave, ct invidiae suhjacens, rursus remittitur in
Italiaro,

(p. 54.)

