402 DECLINE AND FALL [eHAP. XLV.

heroic virtues, the valour, liberality, and fortune of the

king of the Lombards.1" But his ambition was yet un­

satisfied; and the conqueror of the Gepidaa turned his

eyes from the Danube to the richer banks of the Po and

the Tiber. Fifteen years had not elapsed since his sub­

jects, the confederates of Narses, had visited the pleasant

climate of Italy: the mountains, the rivers, the high­

ways, were familiar to their memory : the report of their

success, perhaps the view of their spoils, had kindled in

the rising generation the flame of emulation and enter­

prise. Their hopes were encouraged by the spirit and

eloquence of Alboin; and it is affirmed, that he spoke to

their senses, by producing, at the royal feast, the fairest

and most exquisite fruits that grew spontaneously in the

garden of the world. No sooner had he erected his stand­

ard, than the native strength of the Lombards was mul­

tiplied by the adventurous youth of Germany and Scy-

thia. The robust peasantry of Noricum and Panonia

had resumed the manners of barbarians; and the names

of the Gepidae, Bulgarians, Sarmatians, and Bavarians,

may be distinctly traced in the provinces of Italy." Of

the Saxons, the old allies of the Lombards, twenty thou­

sand warriors, with their wives and children, accepted the

invitation of Alboin. Their bravery contributed to his

success; but the accession or the absence of their num­

bers was not sensibly felt in the magnitude of his host.

Every mode of religion was freely practised by its respec­

tive votaries. The king of the Lombards had been edu­

cated in the Arian heresy; but the Catholics, in their pub­

lic worship, were allowed to pray for hisconversion; while

m Ut hactenus etiam tam apnd Bajoariorum gentem, quam et Saxomim, sed et

alios ejusdem linguae homines . . . . in eorum carminibus celebretar. Paul.
lib. i.

c. 27. He died A. D. 799, (Maratori, in Praefat. tom. 1. p. 397.) These German

songs, some of which might be as old as Tacitus, (de Moribus Germ. c. 2.) were

compiled and transcribed by Charlemagne. Barhara et antiquissima carmina,
quibus

veterum regum actus et bella canehantur, scripsit, memoriaeque mandavit.
(Eginard,

in Vit. Carol. Magn. c. 29. p. 130,131.) The poems, which Goldast commends,

(Animadvers. ad Eginard, p. 207.) appear to be reoent and contemptible
romances.

* The other nations are rehearsed by Paul. (lib. 2. c. 6. 26.) Muratori (Auti-  
ohita Italians, tom. 1. dissert. 1. p. 4.) has discovered the village of the
Bavarians,

three miles from Modena.

