CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 7

destroy the Goths by each other's swords? Are you in­

sensible that the victor in this unnatural contest will be

exposed, and justly exposed, to their implacable revenge?

Where are those warriors, ray kinsmen, and thy own,

whose widows now lament that their lives were sacrificed

to thy rash ambition? Where is the wealth which thy

soldiers possessed when they were first allured from their

native homes to enlist under thy standard? Each of them

was then master of three or four horses; they now fol­

low thee on foot like slaves, through the deserts of

Thrace; those men who were tempted by the hope of

measuring gold with a bushel, those brave men who are

as free and as noble as thyself." A language so well

suited to the temper of the Goths, excited clamour and

discontent; and the son of Theodemir apprehensive of

being left alone, was compelled to embrace his brethren,

and to imitate the example of Roman perfidy.™

In every state of his fortune, the prudence and firm- He under-

ness of Theodoric were equally conspicuous; whether he conquest

threatened Constantinople at the head of the confederate a. a 489.

Goths, or retreated with a faithful band to the mountains'

and sea-coast of Epirus. At length the accidental death'

of the son of Triarius" destroyed the balance which the

Romans had been so anxious to preserve; the whole na­

tion acknowledged the supremacy of the Amali, and the

Byzantine court subscribed an ignominious and oppres­

sive treaty." The senate had already declared, that it

was necessary to choose a party among the Goths, since

the public was unequal to the support of their united

forces; a subsidy of two thousand pounds of gold, with

m Jornandes (c. 56, 57. p. 696.) displays the services of Theodoric, confesses

his rewards, bat dissembles his revolt, of which such curious details have
been pre­

served by Malchus. (Excerpt. Legat, p. 78—97.) Marcellinas, a domestic of Jus­

tinian, under whose fourth consulship (A. D. 534.) he composed his Chronicle,
(Sea-

liger, Thesaurus Temporum, p. 2. p. 34—57.) betrays Ills prejudice and passion
: in

Graeciam dehacchantem . . ■ Zenonis munificentia pene pacatus . . . beneficiis
nun-

quam satiatus, &c.

n As he was riding in his own camp, an uuruly horse threw him against the
point

of a spear which hung before a tent, or was fixed ou a waggon. (Marcellus, in
Chron.

Evagrias, lib. 3. c. 25.) ■

• See Malchus (p. 91.) and Evagrius, (lib. c. 35.)

