DECLINE AND FALL JCHAP. XLI.

or jealous emperor celebrated the divine goodness, and

ednfessed, in silence, the merit of his successful general.8

Impatient to abolish the temporal and spiritual tyranny

of the Vandals, he proceeded, without delay, to the full

establishment of the Catholic church. Her jurisdiction,

wealth, and immunities, perhaps the most essential part

of episcopal religion, were restored and amplified with a

liberal hand; the Arian worship was suppressed; the

Donatist meetings were proscribed ;b and the synod of

Carthage, by the voice of two hundred and seventeen

bishops/ applauded the just measure of pious retaliation.

On such an occasion, it may not be presumed, that many

orthodox prelates were absent; but the comparative

smallness of their number, which in ancient councils

had been twice or even thrice multiplied, most clearly

indicates the decay both of the church and state. While

Justinian approved himself the defender of the faith, he

entertained an ambitious hope, that his victorious lieute­

nant would speedily enlarge the narrow limits of his do­

minion to the space which they occupied before the in­

vasion of the Moors and Vandals; and Belisarius was

instructed to establish five dukes or commanders in the

convenient stations of Tripoli, Leptis, Cirta, Caesarea,

and Sardinia, and to compute the military force of pala­

tines Or borderers that might be sufficient for the defence

of Africa. The kingdom of the Vandals was not un­

worthy of the presence of a praetorian prefect; and four

consulars^ three presidents, were appointed to administer

the seven provinces under his civil jurisdiction. The

number of their Subordinate officers, clerks, messengers,

or assistants, was minutely expressed; three hundred

1 See ihc second and third preambles to the Digest, or Pandects, promulgated

A. D.533, December lb". To the titles of Vantlalicus and Africanus, Justinian,
or

rather Belisarius, had acquired a jnst claim: Gothicus was premature, and
Franci*

cu* false, and offensive to a great nation.

, b See the original acts in Baronius. (A. D. 535, no. 21—54.) The emperor ap­

plauds his own clemency to the heretics, cum sufliciat eis vivere.

* Diipin (Geogfaph. Sacra Africans, p. 59. ad Optat. Milev.) observes and bewails  
this episcopal decay. In the more prosperous age of the church, he had noticed
six

hundred and ninety hishopricks; but however minute were the diocesses, it is
not

prohable that they all existed at the same time.

