CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 489

siegers. The bridges of the Euphrates were destroyed

by the Persians; but as soon as the emperor had disco­

vered a ford, they hastily retired to defend the banks of

the Sarus/ in Cilicia. That river, an impetuous torrent,

was about three hundred feet broad, the bridge was forti­

fied with strong turrets, and the banks were lined with'

barbarian archers. After a bloody conflict, which con­

tinued till the evening, the Romans prevailed in the as­

sault, and a Persian of gigantic size was slain and thrown ►

into the Sarus by the hand of the emperor himself. The

enemies were dispersed and dismayed; Heraclius pur­

sued his march to Sebaste in Cappadocia; and at the ex­

piration of three years, the same coast of the Euxine ap­

plauded his return from a long and victorious expedition."

Instead of skirmishing on the frontier, the two mon- Deiiver-

archs who disputed the empire of the east, aimed their Coututi-

desperate strokes at the heart of their rival. The mili- "h°epp£0,a

tary force of Persia was wasted by the marches and com- s.ians and

bats of twenty years, and many of the veterans who had a.d. 626.

survived the perils of the sword and the climate, were still

detained in the fortresses of Egypt and Syria. But the

revenge and ambition of Chosroes exhausted his king­

dom; and the new levies of subjects, strangers, and slaves,

were divided into three formidable bodies.b The first

army of fifty thousand men, illustrious by the ornament

and title of the golden spears, was destined to march

against Heraclius; the second was stationed to prevent

his junction with the troops of his brother Theodorus;

and the third was commanded to besiege Constantinople,

and to second the operations of the chagan, with whom

the Persian king had ratified a treaty of alliance and par­

tition. Sarbar, the general of the third army, penetrated

through the provinces of Asia to the well-known camp

of Chalcedon, and amused himself with the destruction

1 At ten parasangs from Tarsus', the army of the younger Cyrus passed the
Sarua

three plethra in breadth : the Pyramus, a stadium in breadth, rati five
parasangs

farther to the east. (Xenophon, Anabas. lib. 1. p. 33, 34.)

1 George of Pisidia (Bell. Abaricum, 246—265, p. 49.) celebrates with truth
the'

persevering courage of the three campaigns (t^si; tpspiSfo/LtOfc) against the
Persians.

b Petavius(Annotationes ad Nicephorura, p. 62—64.) discriminates the names and

actions of lire Persian generals who were successively sent against Heraclius.

VOL. V. 2 K

