CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

3. Nature and society impose the strict obligation of Ini

repairing an * injury; and the sufferer by private, injus­

tice, acquires a personal right and a legitimate action.

If the property of another be intrusted to our care, the

requisite degree of care may rise and fall according to.

the benefit which we derive from such temporary posses­

sion; we are seldom made responsible for inevitable ac­

cident, but the consequences of a voluntary fault must

always be imputed to the author.8 A Roman pursued and

recovered his stolen goods by a civil action of theft; they

might pass through a succession of pure and innocent

hands, but nothing less than a prescription of thirty years

could extinguish his original claim. They were restored

by the sentence of the praetor, and the injury was com-,

pensated by double, or threefold, or even quadruple da­

mages, as the deed had been perpetrated by secret fraud

or open rapine, as the robber had bean surprised in the

fact, or detected by a subsequent research. The Aquilian

lavvh defended the living property of a citizen, his slaves

and cattle, from the stroke of malice or negligence: the

highest price was allowed that could be ascribed to the

domestic animal at any moment of the year preceding

his death, a similar latitude of thirty days was granted on

the destruction of any other valuable effects. A perso­

nal inj ury is blunted or sharpened by the manners of the

times and the sensibility of the individual: the pain qc

the disgrace of a word or blow cannot easily be appreci­

ated by a pecuniary equivalent. The rude jurisprudence

of the decemvirs had confounded all hasty insults, which

did not amount to the fracture of a limb, by condemning

the aggressor to the common penalty of twenty-five

According to the etymology of fcenus and -r»jtof, the principal is supposed to
generate

the interest: a breed of barren metal, exclaims Shakespeare—and the stage ia
the

echo of the public voice.

s Sir William Jones has given an ingenions and rational Essay on the Law of

Bailment. (London, 1781, p. 147. in 8vo.) He is perhaps the only lawyer
equally

conversant with the year-books of Westminster, the Commentaries of Ulpian, the

Attic pleadings of Isieas, and the sentences of Arabian and Persian cadhis.

h Noodt (Opp. torn. 1. p. 137—172.) has composed a separate treatise, ad Legem

Aquiliam. (Pandect, lib. 9. lit. 2.) , ^ '('

VOL. V. 2 C

