276 DECLIN*E AND FALL [CHAP. SLIII.

Roman forces were dissipated by a storm. In the second

they approached the shore; but they saw the hills co­

vered with archers, the landing-place defended by a line

of spears, and the king of the Goths impatient for battle.

The conqueror of Italy retired with a sigh, and continued

to languish, inglorious and inactive, till Antonina, who

had been sent to Constantinople to solicit succours, ob­

tained, after the death of the empress, the permission of

his return. ........-.

Final reod The five last campaigns of Belisarius mieht abate the

riu», envy or his competitors, whose eyes had been dazzled

somber! anc^ wounded by the blaze of his former glory. Instead

of delivering Italy from the Goths, he had wandered

like a fugitive along the coast, without daring to march

into the country, or to accept the bold and repeated

challenge of Totila. Yet in the judgment of the few

who could discriminate counsels from events, and com­

pare the instruments with the execution, he appeared a

more consummate master of the art of war, than m the

season of his prosperity, when he presented two' captive

kings before the throne of Justinian. The valour of

Belisarius was not chilled by age; his prudence was ma­

tured by experience, but the moral virtues of humanity

and justice seem to have yielded to the hard necessity of

the times. The parsimony or poverty of the emperor

compelled him to deviate from the rule of conduct which

had deserved the love and confidence of the Italians.

The war was maintained by the oppression of Ravenna,

Sicily, and all the faithful subjects of the empire; and

the rigorous prosecution of Herodian provoked that in­

jured or guilty officer to deliver Spoleto into the hands

of the enemy. The avarice of Antonina, which had been

sometimes diverted by love, now reigned without a rival

in her breast. Belisarius himself had always understood,

that riches, in a corrupt age, are the support and orna­

ment of personal merit. And it cannot be presumed,

that he should stain his honour for the public service,

«

