DECLINE AND Fa£l [CHAP. XLVI.

the prelude of a fierce and general persecution. By the

oppressive laws of Justinian, the adversaries of the church

were made the enemies of the state; the alliance of the

Jews, Nestorians, and Jacobites, had contributed to the

success of Chosroes, and his partial favour to the secta­

ries provoked the hatred and fears of the Catholic clergy.

Conscious of their fear and hatred, the Persian conque­

ror governed his new subjects wiith an iron sceptre ; and

as if he 6uspected the stability of his dominion, he ex­

hausted their wealth by exorbitant tributes and licentious

rapine, despoiled or demolished the temples of the east,

and transported to his hereditary realms the gold, the

silver, the precious marbles, the arts, and the artists of

the Asiatic cities. In the obscure picture of the cala­

mities of the empire,9 it is not easy to discern the figure

of Chosroes himself, to separte his actions from those

of his lieutenants, or to ascertain his personal merit in

the general blaze of glory and magnificence. He en­

joyed with ostentation the fruits of victory,, and fre­

quently retired from the hardships of war to the luxury

of the palace. But in the space of twenty-four years,

he was deterred by superstition or resentment from ap­

proaching the gates of Ctesiphon: and his favourite

residence of Artemita, or Dastagerd, was situate beyond

the Tigris, about sixty miles to the north of the capital.'

The adjacent pastures were covered with flocks and

herds: the paradise or park was replenished with phea­

sants, peacocks, ostriches, roebucks, and wild boars, and

the noble game of lions and tigers was sometimes turned

loose for the bolder pleasures of the chase. Nine hun­

dred and sixty elephants were maintained for the use or

splendour of the great king: his tents and baggages were

carried into the field by twelve thousand great camels and

(Lives of the Saints, vol. 1. p. 242—248.) have taken their accounts. The holy

martyr deserted from the Persian to the Roman army, became a monk at
Jerusalem,

and insulted the worship of the Magi, which was then established at Cscsarea
iu

Palestine.

* Abulpharagins, Dynast. p. 99. Elmacin, Hist. Saracen. p. 14.

'D'Aaville, Mem. de l'Academie des Inscriptions, tom. 32. p. 568—571.

