CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 433

Gregory solicited the aid of some friendly merchants to

•convey him in a basket beyond the gates of Rome, and

■modestly concealed himself some days among the woods

and mountains, till his retreat was discovered, as it is said,

by a celestial light.

'. The pontificate of Gregory the Great, which lasted

thirteen years six months and ten days, is one of the most the Great,

-edifying periods of the history of the church. His vir­  
tues, and even his faults, a singular mixture of simplicity

and cunning, of pride and humility, of sense and super- ™ o™^0

stition, were happily suited to his station and to the tern- ^ep8g~

per of the times. In his rival, the patriarch of Constan- March is.'

tinople, he condemned the antichristian title of universal

bishop, which the successor of St. Peter was too haughty

to concede, and too feeble to assume; and the ecclesias- j11^5^"

tical jurisdiction of Gregory was confined to the triple

character of bishop of Rome, primate of Italy, and apo­

stle of the west. He frequently ascended the pulpit, and

kindled, by his rude, though pathetic eloquence, the

congenial passions of his audience: the language of the

Jewish prophets was interpreted and applied, and the

minds of the people, depressed by their present calami­

ties, were directed to the hopes and fears of the invisible

world. His precepts and example defined the model of

the Roman liturgy ;z the distribution of the parishes, the

calendar of festivals, the order of processions, the service

of the priests and deacons, the variety and change of sa­

cerdotal garments. Till the last days of his life, he offi­

ciated in the canon of the mass, which continued above

three hours; the Gregorian chant" has preserved the vo­

cal and instrumental music of the theatre, and the rough

1 The Lord's prayer consists of half a dozen lines: the Sacramentarius and
Anli-

phonarius of Gregory fill eight hundred and eighty folio pages; (toin. 3. p.
1—880.)

yet these only constitute a part of the Ordo Ronianus, which Mabillon has
illustrated

and Fleury has abridged. (Hist. Eccles. torn. 8. p. 139—152.)

a I learn from the abbe Dubos, (Reflections sur la Poesie et la Peinture,
torn. 3.

p. 174,175.) that the simplicity of the Ambrosinn chant was confined to four
modes,

while the more perfect harmony of the Gregorian comprised the eight modes or
fif­

teen chords of the ancient music. He observes (p. 332.) that the connoisseurs
ad­

mire the preface and many passages of the Gregorian oflicc. . ■.

