DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

one he struck dead the foremost of the assailants; with

the other he received the weapons which every hand was

ambitious to aim against his life. After a combat of

many hours, his left arm was fatigued by the weight of

twelve javelins which hung from his shield. Without

moving from his ground, or suspending his blows, the

hero called aloud on his attendants for a fresh buckler,

but in the moment, while his side was uncovered, it was

pierced by a mortal dart. He fell: and his head, exalt­

ed on a spear, proclaimed to the nations, that the Gothic -

kingdom was no more. But the example of his death

served only to animate the companions who had sworn

to perish with their leader. They fought till darkness

descended on the earth. They reposed on their arms.

The combat was renewed with the return of light, and

maintained with unabated vigour till the evening of the

second day. The repose of a second night, the want of,

water, and the loss of their bravest champions, deter­

mined the surviving Goths to accept the fair capitulation

which the prudence of Narses was inclined to propose.

They embraced the alternative of residing in Italy as the

subjects and soldiers of Justinian, or departing with a

portion of their private wealth, in search of some inde­

pendent country/ Yet the oath of fidelity or exile was

alike rejected by one thousand Goths, who broke away

before the treaty was signed, and boldly effected their

retreat to the walls of Pavia. The spirit, as well as the

situation, of Aligern, prompted him to imitate rather

than to bewail his brother; a strong and dexterous ar­

cher, he transpierced with a single arrow the armour and

breast of his antagonist; and his military conduct de­

fended CumasJ above a year against the forces of the

* Buat (torn. 11. p. 2, &c.) conveys to his favourite Bavaria this remnant of Goths,  
who by others are buried in the mountains of Uri, or restored to their native
isle of

Gothland. (Mascoo, Annot. 21.).

y I leave Scaliger (Aniiuadvers. in Euseb. p. 59.) and Salmasins, (Exercilat.,

Plinian. p. 5.1, 52.) to quarrel about the origin of Curnac, the oldest of the
Greek colo­

nics in Italy, (Strab. lib. 5. p. 372. Velleius Paterculus, lib. 1. c. 4.)
already vacant

in Juvenal's time, (Satir. 3.) and now in ruins,'

