DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. X.LII1.

I desire to believe, but I dare not affirm, that Belisa-

Baigari- rius sincerely rejoiced in the triumph of Narses. Yet

A.*b. 559. the consciousness of his own exploits might teach him

to esteem without jealousy the merit of a rival; and the

repose of the aged warrior was crowned by a last victory

which saved the emperor and the capital. The barba­

rians who annually visited the provinces of Europe were

less discouraged by some accidental defeats, than they

were excited by the double hope of spoil and of subsidy.

In the thirty-second winter of Justinian's reign> the Da­

nube was deeply frozen: Zabergan led the cavalry of

the Bulgarians, and his standard was followed by a pro­

miscuous multitude of Sclavonians. The savage chief

passed, without opposition, the river and the mountains,

spread his troops over Macedonia and Thrace, and ad­

vanced with no more than seven thousand horse to the

long walls which should have defended the territory of

Constantinople. But the works of man are impotent

against the assaults of nature: a recent earthquake had

shaken the foundations of the wall; and the forces of

the empire were employed on the distant frontiers of

Italy, Africa, and Persia. The seven schools? or com­

panies of the guards or domestic troops, had been aug­

mented to the number of five thousand five hundred

men, whose ordinary station was in the peaceful cities

of Asia. But the places of the brave Armenians were

insensibly supplied by lazy citizens, who purchased an

exception from the duties of civil life, without being ex­

posed to the dangers of military service. Of such sol­

diers, few could be tempted to sally from the gates; and,

none could be persuaded to remain in the field, unless,

they wanted strength and speed to escape from the Bul­

garians. The report of the fugitives exaggerated the

numbers and fierceness of an enemy, who had polluted •

holy virgins, and abandoned new-born infants to. the

» In the deoay of these military schools, the satire of Prooopins (Anecdot. c.

Aleman.p. 103,103.) is confirmed and illustrated by Agalhias, (lib. 5. p.
159.) who

cannot be rejected as an hostile witnesj.

