CHAP. XUII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 25Q

Carthage. The feeble Areobindus, unskilled in the af­

fairs of peace and war, was raised by his marriage with the

niece of Justinian to the office of exarch. He was sud­

denly oppressed by a sedition of the guards, and his ab­

ject supplications, which provoked the contempt, could

not move the pity, of the inexorable tyrant. After a

feign of thirty days, Gontharis himself was stabbed at a

banquet, by the hand of Artaban; and it is singular

enough, that an Armenian prince, of the royal family of

Arsaces, should re-establish at Carthage the authority of

the Roman empire. In the conspiracy which unsheathed

the dagger of Brutus against the life of Caesar, every cir­

cumstance is curious and important to the eyes of poste­

rity: but the guilt or merit of these loyal or rebellious

assassins could interest only the contemporaries of Pro-

copius, who, by their hopes and fears, their friendship or

resentment, were personally engaged in the revolutions

of Africa.b

That country was rapidly sinking into the state of bar- Rebellion

barism, from whence it had been raised by the Phoenician Jj **s>

colonies and Roman laws: and every step of intestine A-Sj"8543

discord was marked by some deplorable victory of savage

man over civilized society. The Moors/ though igno­

rant of justice, were impatient of oppression: their va­

grant life and boundless wilderness disappointed the

arms, and eluded the chains, of a conqueror; and expe­

rience had shewn, that neither oaths nor obligations

could secure the fidelity of their attachment, The vic-r

tory of mount Auras had awed them into momentary

submission; but if they respected the character of Solo­

mon, they hated and despised the pride and luxury of

his two nephews, Cyrus and Sergius, on whom their

D YntI must not refuse him tlx merit of painting, in lively colours, the
murder of

Gontharis. One of the Msailing uttered a sentiment not unworthy of a Roman pa-

triot.—" If I fail (said Artasires) in the first stroke, kill me on the spot,
lest the

rack should extort a discovery of my accomplices."

c The Moorish'wars are occasionally introduced ioto the narrative of
Procopius;

(Vandal, lib. 2. c. 19—23. 2o. 27, 28. Gothic, lib. 4. c. 17.) and Tkeopkanes
adds

some prosperous and adverse events in the last years of Justinian.

