CHAP. XL!.] QF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 181

triumphant, burnt their tents, and tumultuously repassed

•the Milvian bridge. They repassed not with impunity:

their thronging multitudes, oppressed in a narrow pas­

sage, were driven headlong into the Tiber by their own

fears and the pursuit of the enemy; and the Roman

"general, sallying from the Pincian gate, inflicted a se­

vere and disgraceful wound on their retreat. The slow

length of a sickly and desponding host was heavily

dragged along the Flaminian way; from whence the

barbarians were sometimes compelled to deviate, Jest

they should encounter the hostile garrisons that guarded

the high road to Rimini and Ravenna. Yet so power­

ful was this flying army, that Vitiges spared ten thou­

sand men for the defence of the cities which he was most

solicitous to preserve, and detached his nephew Uraias,

with an adequate force, for the chastisement of rebellious

Milan. At the head of his principal army, he besieged

.Rimini, only thirty-three miles distant from the Gothic

capital. A feeble rampart, and a shallow ditch, were

maintained by the skill and valour of John the Sanguina­

ry, who shared the danger and fatigue of the meanest

soldier, and emulated, on a theatre less illustrious, the

military virtues of his great commander. ' The towers L?s?Ri-

and battering engines of the barbarians were rendered

useless; their attacks were repulsed; and the tedious

blockade, which reduced the garrison to the last ex­

tremity of hunger, afforded time for the union and march

of the Roman forces. A fleet which had surprised An-

cona, sailed along the coast of the Hadriatic, to the re­

lief of the besieged city. The eunuch Narses landed in

Picenum with two thousand Heruli and five thousand of

the bravest troops of the east. The rock of the Ap-

pennine was forced; ten thousand veterans moved round

the foot of the mountains, under the command of Beli-

sarius himself; and a new army, whose encampment

blazed with innumerable lights, appeared to advance

along the Flaminian way. Overwhelmed with astonish- - ■

