CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 31

tinople was punished as a crime by his jealous monarch;

the artful or peremptory refusal of the Byzantine court

might excuse an equal, and would provoke a larger,

measure of retaliation; and a mandate was prepared in

Italy', to prohibit, after a stated day, the exercise of the

Catholic worship. By the bigotry of his subjects and

enemies, the most tolerant of princes was driven to the

brink of persecution; and the life of Theodoric was too

long., since he lived to condemn the virtue of Boethius

and Symmachus.'

The senator Boethius" is the last of the Romans whom character,

Cato or Tully could have acknowledged for their coun- and L™-

tryman. As a wealthy orphan, he inherited the patri- so"hiL.

mony and honours of the Anician family, a name ambi­

tiously assumed by the kings and emperors of the age;

and the appellation of Manlins asserted his genuine or

fabulous descent from a race of consuls and dictators,

who had repulsed the Gauls from the Capitol, and sacri­

ficed their sons to the discipline of the republic. In the

youth of Boethius, the studies of Rome were not totally

abandoned; a Virgil" is now extant, corrected by the

hand of a consul; and the professors of grammar, rhe­

toric, and jurisprudence, were maintained in their privi­

leges and pensions, by the liberality of the Goths. But

the erudition of the Latin language was insufficient to

satiate his ardent curiosity; and Boethius is said to have

employed eighteen laborious years in the schools of

Athens,1 which were supported by the zeal, the learning,

'I have laboured to extract a rational narrative from the dark, concise, and
various

hints of the Valesian Fragment, (p. 722—724.) Theophanes, (p. 145.)
Anastasins,

(in Johanne.p. 35.)and the Hist.Miscella. (p. 108.edit.(Moratori.) A gentle
pressure

and paraphrase of their words is no violence. Consult likewise Muratori
(Annali

d'ltalia, tom. 4. p. 471—478.) with the Annals and Breviary (tom. 1. 259—263.)
of

the two Pagis, the uncle and the nephew.

• Le Clerc has composed a ciitical and philosophical life of Anioius Manlius
Seve­

ring Boethius, (Blbliot. Chdisie, tom. 16. p. 168—275.) and both Tiraboschi
(tom. 3.)

and Fabricius (Bibllot. Latin.) may be usefully consulted. The date of his
hirth may

he placed about the year 470, and his death in 524, in a premature old age.
(Consot.

Phil. Metrica, 1. p. 5.)

"For the age and value of this MS. now in the Medicean library at Florence,
see

the Cenotaphia Pisana (p. 430—447.) of cardinal Noris.

? The Athenian studies of Boethius are doubtful (Baronius, A. D. 510. no. 3.
from

»' sburious tract, De Disciplina Scholarum), and the term of eighteen years is
doubt-

