CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 485

pealed their tactics in a field of battle,1" and the event of

the day declared to the world, that the Persians were not

invincible, and that a hero was invested with the purple.,

Strong in victory and fame, Heraclius boldly ascended

the heights of mount Taurus, directed his march through

the plains of Cappadocia, and established his troops for the

winter season in safe and plentiful quarters on the banks

of the river Halys." His soul was superior to the vani­

ty of entertaining Constantinople with an imperfect tri­

umph: but the presence of the emperor was indispensa­

bly required to soothe the restless and rapacious spirit of

the Avars.

Since the days of Scipio and Hannibal, no bolder en- His second

terprise has been attempted than that which Heraclius ^a'S

achieved for the deliverance of the empire." He permit- 624,625-

ted the Persians to oppress for a while the provinces, and

to insult with impunity the capital of the east; while the

Roman emperor explored his perilous way through the

Black sea,p and the mountains of Armenia, penetrated

into the heart of Persia,q and recalled the armies of the

great king to the defence of their bleeding country;

With a select band of five thousand soldiers, Heraclius

sailed from Constantinople to Trebizond; assembled his

m Foggini (Annotat. p. 31.) suspects that the Persians were deceived by the
<f>x\-

ovj mnfXnyi^m of jElian, (Tactic, c. 48.) an intricate spiral motion of the
army. He

observed, (p. 28.) that the military descriptions of George of Pisidia are
transcribed

into the Tactics of the Emperor .Leo.

"George of Pisidia, an eye-witness, (Acroas. 2. 122, &c.) described in three

acroaseis or cantos, the first expedition of Heraclius. The poem has been
lately

(1777) published at Rome; but such vague and declamatory praise is far from
cor­

responding with the sanguine hopes of Pagi, D'Anville, &c.

0 Theophanes (p. 256.) carries Heraclius swiftly (jiara ra^of) into Armenia.
Ni-

cephorus, (p. 11.) though he confounds the two expeditions, defines the
province of

Lazica. Eutychias (Annal. torn. ii. p. 231.) has given the five thousand men,
with

the more probable station of Trebizond.

P From Constantinople to Trebizond, with a fair wind, four or live days; from

thence to Erzerom, five; to Erivan, twelve ; to Tauris, ten; in all, thirty-
two. Such

is the Itinerary of Tavernier, (Voyages, torn. 1. p. 12—56.) who was perfectly
con­

versant with the roads of Asia. Tournefort, who travelled with a pasha, spent
ten

or twelve days between Trebizond and Erzerom ; (Voyage du Levant, torn. 3.
lettre

18.) and Chardin (Voyages, torn. 1. p. 249—254.) gives the more correct
distance

of fifty-three parasangs, each of five thousand paces, (what paces ?) between
Erivan

and Tauris.

1 The expedition of Heraclius into Persia is finely illustrated by M.
d'Anville.

(Memoires de 1'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. 28. p. 559—573.) He discovers

the situation of Gandzaca, Thebnrma, Dastagerd, &c. with admirable skill and
learn­

ing; bat the obscure campaign of 624 he passes over in silence.

