CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

finement, and perhaps of his death. Alarmed by the

hasty intrusion and bold reproaches of the captive, Hor-

mouz looked round, but in vain, for advice or assistance;

discovered that his strength consisted in the obedience

of others, and patiently yielded to the sirigle arm of Bin-

does, who dragged him from the throne to the same

dungeon in which he himself had been so lately confined.

At the first tumult, Chosroes, the eldest of the sons of

Hormouz, escaped from the city; he'was persuaded to

return by the pressing and friendly invitation of Bindoes,

-who promised to seat him on his father's throne, and  
who expected to reign under the name of an inexpe­

rienced youth. In the just assurance, that his accom­

plices could neither forgive nor hope to be forgiven, and

that every Persian might be trusted as the judge' and

enemy of the tyrant, he instituted a public trial without

a precedent and without a copy in the annals of the east.

The sonofNushirvan, who had requested to plead in his

own defence, was introduced as a criminal into the full

assembly of the nobles and satraps." He was heard with

decent attention as long as he expatiated on the advan­

tages of order and obedience, the danger of innovation,

and the inevitable discord of those who had encouraged

each other to trample on their lawful and hereditary sove­

reign. By a pathetic appeal to their humanity, he ex­

torted that pity which is seldom refused to the fallen for­

tunes of a king; and while they beheld the abject pos­

ture and squalid appearance of the prisoner, his tears, his

chains, and the marks of ignominious stripes, it was im­

possible to forget how recently they had adored the divine

splendour of his diadem and purple. But an angry mur­

mur arose in the assembly as soon as he presumed to vin­

dicate his conduct, and to applaud the victories of his

reign. He defined the duties of a king, and the Persian

nobles listened with a smile of contempt; they were fired

» The orientals suppose that Bahram convened this assembly and proclaimed

Chosroes; but Theopbylact is, in this instance, more distinct and credible.

