74 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

of Anastasius, and that prudent emperor accumulated an

immense treasure, while he delivered his people from the

most odious or oppressive taxes. Their gratitude uni­

versally applauded the abolition of the gold of affliction,

a personal tribute on the industry of the poorbut more

tolerable, as it should seem, in the form than in the sub­

stance, since the flourishing city of Edessa paid only one

hundred and forty pounds of gold, which was collected

in four years from ten thousand artificers.11 Yet such

was the parsimony, which supported this liberal disposi­

tion, that, in a reign of twenty-seven years, Anastasius

saved, from his annual revenue, the enormous sum of

thirteen millions sterling, or three hundred and twenty

thousand pounds of gold.1 His example was neglected,

and his treasure was abused, by the nephew of Justin.

The riches of Justinian were speedily exhausted by alms

and buildings, by ambitious wars, and ignominious trea­

ties. His revenues were found inadequate to his expenses.

Av«ioe Every art was tried to extort from the people the gold

fasianof and silver which he scattered with a lavish hand from

Justmian. persia to France;™ his reign was marked by the vicissi­

tudes, or rather by the combat, of rapaciousness and ava­

rice, of splendour and poverty; he lived with the repu­

tation of hidden treasures," and bequeathed to his suc­

cessor the payment of his debts." Such a character has

1 Evagrius (lib. 3. e. S9, 40.) is minute and grateful, but angry with Zosimus
for

calumniating tlie great Constantine. In collecting all the bonds and records
of the

tax, Che humanity of Anastasius was diligent and artfal; fathers were
sometimes com­

pelled to prostitute their daughters. (Zosim. Hist. lib. 2. c. 38. p. 165,166.
Lipsiae,

1784.) Timotheus of Gaza chose such an event for the subject of a tragedy,
(Snidas,

tom. S. p. 475.) which contributed to the abolition of the tax: (Cedrenus, p.
35.) a

happy instance (if it be true) of the use of the theatre.

k See Josua Stylites, in the Bibliotheca Orientalis of Asseman. (tom. 1. p.
268.)

This capitation-tax is slightly mentioned in the Chronicle of Edessa.

1 Procopius (Anecdot. c. 19.) fixes this sum from the report of the treasurer*

themselves. Tiberius had Dices ter mi I lies; but far different was his empire
from

that of Anastasius.

m Evagrius, (lib. 4. c. SO.) in the next generation, was moderate and well-
informed;

and Zonaras, (lib. 14. c. 61.) in the twelfth century, had read with care, and
thought

without prejudice: yet their colours are almost as black as those of the
Anecdotes.

° Proeopius (Anecdot. c. 30.) relates the idle conjectures of the times. The

death of Justinian, says the secret historian, will expose his wealth or
poverty.

"SeeCorjppus de Laudibus Justini Aug. lib. 2. 260. &c. 384, &c.

"Plurima sunt vivo mmium neglecta parenti,

Uude totexhaustus contraxit dehita fiscas."

