CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4»

Justin was far inferior to that of the Gothic king: the

experience of a soldier had not qualified him for the

government of an empire; and, though personally

brave, the consciousness of his own weakness was natu­

rally attended with doubt, distrust, and political appre­

hension. But the official business of the state was

diligently and faithfully transacted by the quaestor Pro-

clus;" and the aged emperor adopted the talents and

ambition of his nephew Justinian, an aspiring youth,

whom his uncle had drawn from the rustic solitude of

Dacia, and educated at Constantinople, as the heir of

his private fortune, and at length of the eastern empire.

Since the eunuch Amantius had been defrauded of his Adoption

money, it became necessary to deprive him of his life, cession of

The task was easily accomplished by the charge of a real ^Tmo

or fictitious conspiracy; and the judges were informed, as ~~527,

an accumulation of guilt, that he was secretly addicted to

the Manichaean heresy/ Amantius lost his head; three

of his companions, the first domestics of the palace, were

punished either with death or exile; and their unfor- •

tunate candidate for the purple was cast into a deep

dungeon, overwhelmed with stones, and ignominiously

thrown, without burial, into the sea. The ruin of Vi-

talian was a work of more difficulty and danger. That

Gothic chief had rendered himself popular by the civil

war which he boldly waged against Anastasius for the

defence of the orthodox faith, and, after the conclusion

of an advantageous treaty, he still remained in the neigh­

bourhood of Constantinople, at the head of a formidable

and victorious army of barbarians. By the frail security

of oaths, he was tempted to relinquish this advantageous

situation, and to trust his person within the walls of a

city, whose inhabitants, particularly the blue faction,

e His virtues are praised by Procopius. (Persic. lib. 1. o. 11.) The quxstor
Pro-

clus was the friend of Justinian, and the enemy of every other adoption.

f Manichaean signifies Eutychian. Hear the furious acclamations of
Constantinople

and Tyre, the former nu more than six days afler the decease of Anastasins.
They

produced, the latter applauded, the eunuch's death. (Baronim, A.D. 518. p. 2.
no. 15.

Fleury, Hist. Eccles. tom. 7, p, 200. 205. from the councils, tom. 5. p. 182.
207.)

VOL. V. E

