CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 315

Institutes ;a the public reason of the Romans has

been silently or studiously transfused into the domestic

institutions of Europe/ and the laws of Justinian stilt

command the respect or obedience of independent na­

tions. Wise or fortunate is the prince who connects

his own reputation with the honour and interest of a per^

petual order of men. The defence of their founder is

the first cause, which in evsry age has exercised the zeal

and industry of the civilians. They piously commemo­

rate his virtues; dissemble or deny his failings; and

fiercely chastise the guilt or folly of the rebels who pre­

sume to sully the majesty of the purple. The idolatry

of love has provoked, as it usually happens, the rancour

of opposition: the character of Justinian has been ex­

posed to the blind vehemence of flattery and invective,

and the injustice of a sect (the Anti-Tribonians) has re­

fused all praise and merit to the prince, his ministers, and

his laws.c Attached to no party, interested only for the

truth and candour of history, and directed by the most

temperate and skilful guides/ I enter with just diffidence

» The civilians of the darker ages have established an absurd and
incomprehensible

mode of quotation, which is supported by authority and custom. In their
references

to the Code, the Pandects, and the Institutes, they mention the number not of
the

book, hat'only of the law; and content themselves with recitiug the first
words of

the title to which it belongs ; and of these titles there are more than a
thousand.

Lndewig (Vit. Justiniani, p. £68.) wishes to shake off this pedantic yoke; and
I

have dared to adopt the simple and rational method of numbering the book, the
title,

and the law.

D Germany, Bohemia, Hungary, Poland, and Scotland, have received them as

common law or reason; in France, Italy, &c. they possess a direct or indirect
influ­

ence; and they were respected in England, from Stephen to Edward I. our
national

Justinian, (Duck, de TJsu et Auctoritate Juris Civilis, lib. 2. c. 1. 8—15.
Heineo-

cius, Hist. Juris Germaoici, c. 3, 4. no. 55—124.) and the legal historians of
each

country.

c Francis Hottoman, a learned and acute lawyer of the sixteenth century,
wished,

to mortify Cujacius, and to please the chancellor do l'Hopital. His Anti-
Triboni-

anus (which I have never been able to procure) was published in French in
1609:

and his seetwas propagated in Germany. (Heineixius, Opp. tom. 3. sylloge 3. p.
171

—183.)

d At the head of these guides I shall respectfully place the learned and
perspicuous

Heineccius, a German professor, who died at Halle in the year 1741, (see his
Eloge

in the Nouvelle Bibliotheque Germanique, tom. 2. p. 51—64.) His ample works

have been collected in eight volames in 4to. Geneva, 1743—1748. The treatises

which I have separately used are, 1. Historia Juris Romani et Germanic!, Lugd.

Batav. 1740, in 8vo. 2. Syntagma Antiquitatum Romanam Jurisprudentiam illus-

trantium, 2 vols, in 8vo. Traject. ad RhenuBi. 3. Elementa Juris Civilis
secundum

Ordinem Institutionum, Lugd. Bat. 1751, in 8vo. 4. Elementa J.C. secundum Or-

dinem Pandectarum, Traject. 1772, in 8vo. 2. vols.

Y 1"?

