CHAP. XLIY.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 383

equal freedom to the end of the Punic wars, the city was

never disturbed by sedition, and rarely polluted with

atrocious crimes. The failure of penal laws was more

sensibly felt when every vice was inflamed by faction at

home and dominion abroad. In the time of Cicero, each

private citizen enjoyed the- privilege of anarchy; each

minister of the republic was exalted to the temptations

of legal power, and their virtues are entitled to the warm­

est praise as the spontaneous fruits of nature or philoso­

phy. After a triennial indulgence of lust, rapine, and

cruelty, Verres, the tyrant of Sicily, could only be sued

for the pecuniary restitution of three hundred thousand

pounds sterling; and such was the temper of the laws,

the judges, and perhaps the accuser himself/ that on re­

funding a thirteenth part of his plunder, Verres could

retire to an easy and luxurious exile.1

The first imperfect attempt to restore the proportion Revival of

of crimes and punishments, was made by the dictator

Sylla, who, in the midst of his sanguinary triumph, as­

pired to restrain the licence, rather than to oppress the

liberty, of the Romans. He gloried in the arbitrary pro­

scription of four thousand seven hundred citizens.* But

in the character* of a legislator, he respected the prejudices

of the times; and instead of pronouncing a sentence of

death against the robber or assassin, the general who be­

trayed an army, or the magistrate who ruined a province,

Sylla was content to aggravate the pecuniary damages by

the penalty of exile, or, in more constitutional language,

by the interdiction of fire and water. The Cornelian,

and afterward the Pompeian and Julian laws, introduced

T He first rated at millies (L. 800,000.) the damages of Sicily,
(DivinatioinCasci-

Uum, c. 5.) which he afterward reduced to quadringenties, (L. 320,000—-1.
Actio in

Verrem, c. 18.) and was finally content with tricies. (b. 24,000.) Plutarch
inCice-

ron. (torn. 3. p. 1584.) has not dissembled the popular suspicion and report.

* Verres lived near thirty years after his trial, till the second triumvirate, when  
he was proscribed bv the taste of Mark Antony for the sake of his Corinthian
plate.

(Plin. Hist. Natur. 34. 3.)

a Such is the number assigned by Valerius Maxima*, (lib. 9. c. 2. no. 1.)
Floras

(4. 21.) distinguishes two thousand senators and knights; Appiatt (de Bell.
Civil,

lib. 1. c. 95. torn. 2. p. 133. edit. Schweigteuser) more accurately computes
forty

victims of the senatorial! rank, and one thousand six hundred of the
equestrian census

or order.

