DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

Petra was placed in the valour of fifteen hundred Per­

sians, who resisted the assaults of the Romans, whilst in

a softer vein of earth, a mine was secretly perforated.

The wall, supported by slender and temporary props,

hung tottering in the air; but Dagisteus delayed the at­

tack till he had secured a specific recompence; and the

town was relieved before the return of his messenger

from Constantinople. The Persian garrison was reduced

to four hundred men, of whom no more than fifty were

exempt from sickness or wounds; yet such had been

their inflexible perseverance, that they concealed their

losses from the enemy, by enduring, without a murmur,

the sight and putrifying stench of the dead bodies of their

eleven hundred companions. After their deliverance,

the breaches were hastily stopped with sand-bags; the

mine was replenished with earth; a new wall was erected

on a frame of substantial timber; and a fresh garrison

of three thousand men was stationed at Petra, to sustain

the labours of a second siege. The operations, both of

the attack and defence, were conducted with skilful ob­

stinacy; and each party derived useful lessons from the

experience of their past faults. A battering ram was in­

vented, of light construction and powerful effect; it was

transported and worked by the hands of forty soldiers;

and as the stones were loosened by its repeated strokes,

they were torn with long iron hooks from the wall.

From those walls, a shower of darts was incessantly

poured on the heads of the assailants, but they were most

dangerously annoyed by a fiery composition of sulphur

and bitumen, which in Colchos might with some pro­

priety be named the oil of Medea. Of six thousand Ro­

mans who mounted the scaling-ladders, their general,

Bessas, was the first, a gallant veteran of seventy years

of age: the courage of their leader, his fall, and extreme

danger, animated the irresistible effort of his troops; and

their prevailing numbers oppressed the strength, without

subduing the spirit, of the Persian garrison. The fate

