230 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLH.

Chosroes was easily persuaded to imitate the example

which he condemned: but the Persian, ambitious of

military tame, disdained the inactive warfare of a rival,

He invades who issued his sanguinary commands from the secure

a. D/540, station of the Byzantine palace. - • .

Whatever might be the provocation of Chosroes, he

abused the confidence of treaties; and the just reproaches

of dissimulation and falsehood could only be concealed

by the lustre of his victories.q The Persian army, which

had been assembled in the plains of Babylon, prudently

declined the strong cities of Mesopotamia, and followed

the western bank of the Euphrates, till the small though

populous town of Dura presumed to arrest the progress

of the great king. The gates of Dura, by treachery and

surprise, were burst open ; and as soon as Chosroes had

stained his scymitar with the blood of the inhabitants,

he dismissed the ambassador of Justinian to inform his

master in what place he had left the enemy of the Ro­

mans. The conqueror still affected the praise of hu­

manity and justice: and as he beheld a noble matron

with her infant rudely dragged along the ground, he

sighed, he wept, and implored the divine justice to pu­

nish the author of these calamities. Yet the herd of

twelve thousand captives was ransomed for two hundred

pounds of gold; the neighbouring bishop of Sergio-

polis pledged his faith for the payment; and in the

subsequent year the unfeeling avarice of Chosroes ex­

acted the penalty of an obligation which it was ge­

nerous to contract, and impossible to discharge. He

advanced into the heart of Syria; but a feeble enemy,

who vanished at his approach, disappointed him of the

honour of victory ; and as he could not hope to establish

his dominion, the Persian king displayed in this inroad

the mean and rapacious vices of a robber. Hierapolis,

1 The invasion of Syria, the ruin of Antiocli, &c. are related in a full and
regular

series by Procopius. (Persic, lib. 2. c. 5—14.) Small collateral aid can be
drawn

from the orientals : yet not they, but D'Herbelot himself, (p. 6U0.) should
blush, when

lie blames them for making Justinian and Nushirvan contemporaries. On the
geogra­

phy of the seat of war, D'Anville (J'Enphrate el le Tigre) is suflicieat and
satisfactory.

