CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 371

inofficious testament, to suppose that their father's un­

derstanding was impaired by sickness or age; and respect­

fully to appeal from his rigorous sentence to the delibe­

rate wisdom of the magistrate. In the Roman jurispru- Legacies,

dence, an essential distinction was admitted between the

inheritance and the legacies. The heirs who succeeded to

the entire unity, or to any of the twelve fractions of the

substance of the testator, represented his civil and reli­

gious character, asserted his rights, fulfilled his obliga­

tions, and discharged the gifts of friendship or liberality

which his last will had bequeathed under the name of

legacies. But as the imprudence or prodigality of a dy­

ing man might exhaust the inheritance, and leave only

risk and labour to his successor, he Was empowered to

retain the Falcidian portion; to deduct, before the pay­

ment of the legacies, a clear fourth for his own emolu­

ment. A reasonable time was allowed to examine' the

• proportion between the debts and the estate, to decide

whether he should accept or refuse the testament; and

if he used the benefit of an inventory, the demands of

the creditors could not exceed the valuation of the ef­

fects. The last will of a citizen might be altered during

- his life, or rescinded after his death: the persons whom  
he named might die before him, or reject the inherit­

ance, or be exposed to some legal disqualification. In

the contemplation of these events, he was permitted to

substitute second and third heirs, to replace each other

according to the order of the testament; and the inca­

pacity of a madman or an infant to bequeath his property,

might be supplied by a similar substitution.q But the

power of the testator expired with the acceptance of the

testament: each Roman of mature age and discretion

acquired the absolute dominion of his inheritance, and

1 The substitutions fidei commissaires of the modem civil law is a feudal idea

grafted on the Roman jurisprudence, and bears scarcely any resemblance to the
an­

cient fidei commissa. (Institutions do Droit Francois, tom. 1. p. 347—383.
Denissart,

Decisions dc Jurisprudence, tom. 4. p. 577—604.) They were stretched to the
fourth

degree by au abuse of the hundred and fifty-ninth Novel; a partial, perplexed,
decla­

matory law.

