CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE SOMAN EMPIRE. i$t

Diocletian, thedecuries of Roman judges had sunk to an

empty title; the humble advice of the assessors might be

accepted or despised; and in each tribunal the civil and cri­

minal jurisdiction was administered by a single magistrate,

who was raised and disgraced by the will of the emperor.

A Roman accused of any capital crime might prevent voluntary

the sentence of the law by voluntary exile, or death, death.8'"1

Till his guilt had been legally proved, his innocence was

presumed, and his person was free; till the votes of the

last century had been counted and declared, he might

peaceably secede to any of the allied cities of Italy, or

Greece, or Asia.™ His fame and fortunes were preserv­

ed, at least to his children, by this civil death; and he

might still be happy in every rational and sensual enjoy­

ment, if a mind accustomed to the ambitious tumult of

Romecould support the uniformity and silence of Rhodes

or Athens. A bolder effort was required to escape from

the tyranny of the Caesars; but this effort was rendered

familiar by the maxims of the Stoics, the examples of

the bravest Romans, and the legal encouragements of

suicide. The bodies of condemned criminals were ex­

posed to public ignominy, and their children, a more

serious evil, were reduced to poverty by the confiscation

of their fortunes. But if the victims of Tiberius and

Nero anticipated the decree of the prince or senate, their

courage and dispatch were recompensed by the applause

of the public, the decent honours of burial, and the vali­

dity of their testaments/ The exquisite avarice and

cruelty of Domitian appear to have deprived the unfor­

tunate of this last consolation, and it was still denied even

by the clemency of the Antonines. A voluntary death,

which, in the case of a capital offence, intervened be­

tween the accusation and the sentence, was admitted as,

a confession of guilt, and the spoils of the deceased were

"Polyb. lib. 6. p. 643. The extension of the empire and city of Rome, obliged
the

exile to seek a more distant place of retirement.

* Qui de se statuehant, humahantur corpora, manebant testamenta; pretimu fes-  
linandi. Tacit. Annal. 6. lb. with the notes of Lipsi'us.

