CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 285

rapid progress of treason, and he resolved to risk the

Gothic kingdom on the chance of a day, in which the

valiant would be animated by instant danger, and the

disaffected might be awed by mutual ignorance. In his

march from Ravenna, the Roman general chastised the

garrison of Rimini, traversed in a direct line the. hills of

Urbino, and re-entered the Flaminian way, nine miles

beyond the perforated rock, an obstacle of art and na­

ture which might have stopped or retarded his progress.1

—The Goths were assembled in the neighbourhood of

Rome, they advanced, without delay, to seek a superior

enemy, and the two armies approached each other at the

distance of one hundred furlongs, between Taginam and

the sepulchres of the Gauls." The haughty message of

Narses was an offer, not of peace, but of pardon. The

answer of the Gothic king declared his resolution to die

or conquer. "What day (said the messenger) will you

fix for the combat?" "The eighth day," replied Totila:

but early the next morning he attempted to surprise a

foe, suspicious of deceit, and prepared for battle. Ten

thousand Heruli and Lombards, of approved valour and

doubtful faith, were placed in the centre. Each of the

wings was composed of eight thousand Romans; the

right was guarded by the cavalry of the Huns, the left

1 The Flaminian way, as it is corrected from the Itineraries, and the best
modern

maps, by d'Anville, (Analyse de I'ltalie, p. 147—162.) may be thas stated:
Rome

to Narni, fifty-one Roman miles; Terni,fifty-seven; Spoleto, seventy-five;
Folignu,

eighty-eight; Nocera, one hundred and three; Cagli, one hundred arid forty-
two;

Intercisa, one hundred and fifty-seven ; Fossombrone, one hundred and sixty ;
Fano,

one hundred and seventy-six; Pesaro, one hundred and eighty-four; Rimini, two

hundred and eight—about one hundred and eighty-nine English miles. He takes

no notice of the death of Totila; but Wesseling (Itinerar. p. 614.) exchanges

for the field of Taginat the unknown appellation of Ptauitts, eight miles from

Nocera,

m Taginne, or rather Tadir.ae, is mentioned by Pliny; but the hishoprick of
that ob­

scure town, a mile from Gnaldo, in the plain, was united, in the year 1007,
with that

of Nocera. Tjie signs of antiquity are preserved in the local appellations,
Fossato,

the camp; Cupraia, Caprea; hastia, Busta Gallorum. See Clnverius, (Italja An-

tiqua, lib. 2. c. 6. p. 615—617.) Lucas Holstenius, (Annotat. ad Cluver. p.
85, 86.)

Guazzesi, (Dissertat. p. 177—217. a professed inquiry) and the maps of the
eccle­

siastical state and the march of Ancona, by Le Maire and Magini.

D The hattle was fought in the year of Rome 458: and the consul Oecius, by de­

voting his own life, assured the triumph of his country and'his colleague
Fahius.

(T. Liv. 10. 28, 29.) Procopius ascribes to Camillus the victory of the Busta
Gal­

lorum; and his error is branded by Cluverios with the national reproach of
Graeco.

ium nugaiacnta.

