CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 37

Boethius, he derived some comfort from the safety of

his two sons, of his wife, and his father-in-law, the ve­

nerable Symmachus. But the grief of Symmachus was

indiscreet, and perhaps disrespectful: he had presumed

to lament, he might dare to revenge, the death of an in­

jured friend. He was dragged in chains from Rome to Death of

the palace of Ravenna; and the suspicions of Theodoric chus.

could only be appeased by the blood of an innocent and A"D'5<*'

aged senator.' •"'

Humanity will be disposed to encourage any report Remorse

, . , , . L.i ...... 11 and death

which testifies the jurisdiction or conscience and the re- ofTheo-

morse of kings; and philosophy is not ignorant that the A"rD.'5t6,

most horrid spectres are sometimes created by the pow- Ausost 3a

ers of a disordered fancy, and the weakness of a distem­

pered body. After a life of virtue and glory, Theodoric

was now descending with shame and guilt into the grave:

his mind was humbled by the contrast of the past, and

justly alarmed by the invisible terrors of futurity. One

evening, as it is related, when the head of a large fish was

served on the royal table,k he suddenly exclaimed, that

he beheld the angry countenance of Symmachus, his

eyes glaring fury and revenge, and his mouth armed

with long sharp teeth, which threatened to devour him.

•The monarch instantly retired to his chamber, and as he

lay trembling with aguish cold under a weight of bed­

clothes, he expressed in broken murmurs to his physi­

cian Elpidius, his deep repentance for the murders of

Boethius and Symmachus.1 His malady increased, and

third, the learned Pope Silvester II. who, like Boethins himself, was styled a
magician

by the ignorance of the times. The Catholic martyr had carried his head in his
hands

a considerable way ; (Baronius, A. D. 526, no, 17, 18.) yet, on a similar
tale, a lady

of my acquaintance once observed, " La distance n'y fait rien ; il n'y a que
le premier

pas qui conte."

* Boelbius applauds the virtues of his father-in-law. (lib. 1. pros. 4. p. 59. lib. 2.  
pros. 4. p. 118.) Procopius, (Goth. lib. 1. c. 1.) the Valesiau Fragment, (p.
724.)

and the Historia Miscella, (lib. 15. p. 105.) agree in praising the superior
innocence

or sanctity of Symmachus; and in the estimation of the legend, the guilt of
his mur­

der is equal to the imprisonment of a pope.'

k In the fanciful eloquence of Cassiodorius the variety of sea and river fish
are an

evidenceof extensive dominion ; and those of the Rhine, of Sicily, and of the
Danube,

were served on the table of Theodoric. (Var. 12. 14.) The monstrous turbot of
Do-

mitian (Juvenal, Satir. S. 39.) had been caught on the shores of the Adriatic.

1 Procopius, Goth. lib. 1. c. 1. Bat he might have informed us whether he had

