76 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

The emperor refused, at the return of each fifth year,

the customary donative of five pieces of gold, reduced his

veterans to beg their bread, and suffered unpaid armies

Remit- to melt away in the wars of Italy and Persia. II. The

«Doei. humanity of his predecessors had always remitted, in

some auspicious circumstance of their reign, the arrears

of the public tribute; and they dexterously assumed the

merit of resigning those claims, which it was impracti­

cable to enforce. "Justinian, in the space of thirty-two

years, has never granted a similar indulgence; and many

of his subjects have renounced the possession of those

lands, whose value is insufficient to satisfy the demands

of the treasury. To the cities, which had suffered by

hostile inroads, Anastasius promised a general exemption

of seven years: the provinces of Justinian have been ra­

vaged by the Persians and Arabs, the Huns and Sclavo-

nians; but his vain and ridiculous dispensation of a single

year has been confined to those places which were actu­

ally taken by the enemy." Such is the language of the

secret historian, who expressly denies that any indul­

gence was granted to Palestine after the revolt of the

Samaritans; a false and odious charge, confuted by the

authentic record, which attests a relief of thirteen cen­

tenaries of gold (52,000/.), obtained for that desolate

province by the intercession of St. Sabas.q III. Pro-

copius has not condescended to explain the system

of taxation^ which fell like a hail-storm upon the land,

like a devouring pestilence on its inhabitants; but we

should become the accomplices of his malignity, if we

imputed to Justinian alone, the ancient though rigorous

principle, that a whole district should be condemned to

sustain the partial loss of the persons or property of in-

Taxes." dividuals. The Anona, or supply of corn for the use of

the army and capital, was a grievous and arbitrary ex-

1 One to Scythopolis, capital of the second Palestine, and twelve for the rest
of

the province. Alenian. (p. 59.) honestly prodnces this fact from a MS. life of
St.

Sahas, by his disciple Cyril, in the Vatioan library, and since published by
Cott-

lerins.

