CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

dined, by injuries, benefits, and promises ; and tbe inter­

pretation of voluntary contracts and testaments, which

are often dictated by fraud or ignorance, affords a long

and laborious exercise to the sagacity of the judge. The

business of life is multiplied by the extent of commerce

and dominion, and the residence of the parties in the dis­

tant provinces of an empire, is productive of doubt, de­

lay, and inevitable appeals from the local to the supreme

magistrate. Justinian, the Greek emperor of Constan­

tinople and the east, was the legal successor of the Latian

shepherd who had planted a colony on the banks of

the Tiber. In a period of thirteen hundred years, the

laws had reluctantly followed the changes of government

and manners: and the laudable desire of conciliating

ancient names with recent institutions, destroyed the

harmony, and swelled the magnitude, of the obscure and

irregular system. The laws which excuse on any occa­

sions the ignorance of their subjects, confess their own

imperfections; the civil jurisprudence, as it was abridged

by Justinian, still continued a mysterious science and a

profitable trade, and the innate perplexity of the study

was involved in tenfold darkness by the private industry

of the practitioners. The expense of the pursuit some­

times exceeded the value of the prize, and the fairest

rights were abandoned by the poverty or prudence of the

claimants. Such costly justice might tend to abate the

spirit of litigation, but the unequal pressure serves only

to increase the influence of the rich, and to aggravate

the misery of the poor. By these dilatory and expensive

proceedings, the wealthy pleader obtains a more certain

advantage than he could hope from the accidental cor­

ruption of his judge. The experience of an abuse, from

which our own age and country are not perfectly exempt,

may sometimes provoke a generous indignation, and ex­

tort the hasty wish of exchanging our elaborate jurispru­

dence for the simple and summary decrees of a Turkish

cadhi. Our calmer reflection will suggest, that such

vol. v. 2 D

