CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 235

active; one soldier carried a whip, another a sword, a

third a bow, a fourth perhaps a battle-axe, and the whole

picture exhibited the intrepidity of the troops and the

vigilance of the general. Chosroes was deluded by the

address, and awed by the genius, of the lieutenant of Jus­

tinian. Conscious of the merit, and ignorant of the

force, of his antagonist, he dreaded a decisive battle in a

distant country, from whence not a Persian might return

to relate the melancholy tale. The great king hastened

to repass the Euphrates; and Belisarius pressed his re­

treat, by affecting to oppose a measure so salutary to the

empire, and which could scarcely have been prevented by

an army of a hundred thousand men. Envy might sug­

gest to ignorance and pride, that the public enemy had

been suffered to escape: but the African and Gothic

triumphs are less glorious than this safe and bloodless

victory, in which neither fortune, nor the valour of the

soldiers, can subtract any part of the general's renown.

The second removal of Belisarius from the Persian to the a. d. 543,

Italian war, revealed the extent of his personal merit, &0"

which had corrected or supplied the want of discipline

and courage. Fifteen generals, without concert or skill,

led through the mountains of Armenia an army of thirty

thousand Romans, inattentive to their signals, their

ranks, and their ensigns. Four thousand Persians, in-

'trenched in the camp of Dubis, vanquished, almost with­

out a combat, this disorderly multitude; their useless

arms were scattered along the road, and their horses

sunk under the fatigue of their rapid flight. But the

Arabs of the Roman party prevailed over their bre­

thren; the Armenians returned to their allegiance; the

cities of Dara and Edessa resisted a sudden assault and

a regular siege, and the calamities of war were sus­

pended by those of pestilence. A tacit or formal agree­

ment between the two sovereigns, protected the tran­

quillity of the eastern frontier; and the arms of Chos­

roes were confined to the Colchian or Lazic war, which

a 2

