CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 387

A new spirit of legislation, respectable even in its error, °f

arose in the empire with the religion of Constantine." tian em-

The laws of Moses were received as the divine original Peror*•

of justice, and the Christian princes adapted their penal

statutes to the degrees of moral and religious turpitude.

Adultery was first declared to be a capital offence; the

frailty of the sexes was assimilated to poison or assassina­

tion, to sorcery, or parricide; the same penalties were in­

flicted on the passive and active guilt of paederasty; and

all criminals of free or servile condition were either drown­

ed or beheaded, or cast alive into the avenging flames.

The adulterers were spared by the common sympathy of

mankind; but the lovers of their own sex were pursued

by general and pious indignation; the impure manners

of Greece still prevailed in the cities of Asia, and every

vice was fomented by the celibacy of the monks and

clergy. Justinian relaxed the punishment at least of fe­

male infidelity; the guilty spouse was only condemned

to solitude and penance, and at the end of two years she

might be recalled to the arms of a forgiving husband.

But the same emperor declared himself the implacable

enemy of unmanly lust, and the cruelty of his persecu­

tion can scarcely be excused by the purity of his motives.0

In defiance of every principle of justice, he stretched to

past as well as future offences the operations of his edicts,

with the previous allowance of a short respite for confes­

sion and pardon. A painful death was inflicted by the

amputation of the sinful instrument, or the insertion of!

sharp reeds into the pores and tubes of most exquisite

sensibility; and Justinian defended the propriety of the

execution, since the criminals would have lost their

hands had they been convicted of sacrilege. In this state

of disgrace and agony, two bishops, Isaiah of Rhodes,

» See the laws of Constantine and his successors against adultery, sodomy, &c.
in

the Theodosian (lib. 9. tit. 7. leg. 7. lib. 11. tit. 36. leg. 1. 4.) and
Justinian Codes.

(Jib. 9. tit. 9. leg. 30,31.) These princes speak the language of passion as
well as

of justice, and fraudulently ascribe their own severity to the first Caesars.

° Justinian, Novel. 77. 134.141. Procopius, in Anecdot. o. 11. 16. with the

Notes Alemannus. Theophanes, p, 151, Cedrenus, p. 368. Zouaras, lib, 14. p.64.

