334 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL1V.

that he who touches the ear, touches the whole body;

and that he who steals from a heap of corn, or a hogs­

head of wine, is guilty of the entire theft.1"

Authority. Arms, eloquence, and the study of the civil law, pro­

moted a citizen to the honours of the Roman state ; and

the three professions were.sometimes more conspicuous

by their union in the same character. In the composi­

tion of the edict, a learned prastor gave a sanction and

preference to his private sentiments: the opinion of a

censor, or a consul, was entertained with respect: and

a doubtful interpretation of the laws might be support­

ed by the virtues or triumphs of the civilian. The pa­

trician arts were long protected by the veil of mystery;

and in more enlightened times, the freedom of inquiry

established the general principles of jurisprudence. Sub­

tle and intricate cases were elucidated by the disputes of

the Forum: rules, axioms,and definitions," were admitted

as the genuine dictates of reason ; and the consent of the

legal professors was interwoven into the practice of the

tribunals. But these interpreters could neither enact

nor execute the laws of the republic; and the judges

might disregard the authority of Scaevolas themselves,

which was often overthrown by the eloquence or so­

phistry of an ingenious pleader.° Augustus and Tibe­

rius were the first to adopt, as a useful engine, the

science of the civilians; and their servile labours ac­

commodated the old system to the spirit and views of

despotism. Under the fair pretence of securing the

dignity of the art, the privilege of subscribing legal and

valid opinions was confined to the sages of senatorian or

equestrian rank, who had -been previously approved by

the judgment of the prince; and this monopoly prevail­

ed, till Hadrian restored the freedom of the profession to

m See Gravina, (p. 45—51.) and the ineffectual cavils of Mascou. Heineccins

(Hist. J. R. no. 125.) quotes and approves a dissertation of Ever aid Otto, de
Stoica

Jorisconsnltorom Philosophia.

° We have heard of the Catonian rule, the Aquilian stipulation, and the
Manilian

forms, of two hundred and eleven maxims, and of two hundred and forty-seven
defi­

nitions. (Pandect. Jib. 50. tit. 16,17.)

° Read Cicero, lib. 1. de. Oratore, Topica, pro Murena.

