88 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL,

admitted into the new edifice; and the choice of the ma­

terials was applied to the strength, the lightness, or the

splendour of the respective parts. The solid piles, which

sustained the cupola, were composed of huge blocks of

freestone, hewn into squares and triangles, fortified by

circles of iron, and firmly cemented by the infusion of

lead and quick lime: but the weight of the cupola was

diminished by the levity of its substance, which consists

either of pumice-stone, that floats in the water, or of

bricks from the isle of Rhodes, five times less ponderous

than the ordinary sort. The whole frame of the edifice

was constructed of brick; but those base materials were

concealed by a crust of marble; and the inside of St. So­

phia, the cupola, the two larger, and thesix smaller,

semi-domes, the walls, the hundred columns, and the

pavement, delight even the eyes of barbarians with a

Marbles, rich and variegated picture. A poet," who beheld the

primitive lustre of St. Sophia, enumerates the colours,

the shades, and the spots of ten or twelve marbles, jas­

pers, and porphyries, which nature had profusely diver­

sified, and which were blended and contrasted as it were

by a skilful painter. The triumph of Christ was adorned

with the last spoils of Paganism ; but the greater part of

these costly stones was extracted from the quarries of

Asia Minor, the isles and continent of Greece, Egypt,

Africa, and Gaul. Eight columns of porphyry, which

Aurelian had placed in the temple of the sun, were of­

fered by the piety of a Roman matron ; eight others of

green marble were presented by the ambitious zeal of

the magistrates of Ephesus: both are admirable by their

size and beauty ; but every order of architecture disclaims

• Paul Silentiarius, in dark and poetic language, describes the various stones
and

marbles that were employed in the edifioe of St. Sophia .(P. 2. p. 129. 133,
&c.

&io.) 1. The Carystian—pale, with iron veins. 2. The Phrygian—of two aorta,

both of a rosy hne; the one with a white shade, the other purple, with silver
flowers.

3. The Porphyry of Egypt—with small stars. 4. The green marble of Laconia.

5. The Corian—from Mount lassis, with oblique veins, white and red. 6. The Ly-

dian—pale, with a red flower. 7. The African or Mauritaman—of a gold or saf­

fron hue. 8. The Celtic—black, with white veins. 9. The Botplurric—white, with

black edges. Besides the Proconn«iaii, which formed the pavement; the
Thessalian

Molossiun, &c. which are lets distinctly painted.

