HAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Jf>

I

his family and people, and checked the Franks in the

midst of their victorious career. I am not desirous to

prolong or repeatb this narrative of military events, the

least interesting of the reign of Theodoric; and shall be

content to add, that the Alemanni were protected/ that

an inroad of the Burgundians was severely chastised, and

that the conquest of Aries and Marseilles opened a free

communication with the Visigoths, who revered him

both as their national protector, and as the guardian of

his grandchild, the infant son of Alaric. Under this re­

spectable character, the king of Italy restored the praeto­

rian prefecture of the Gauls, reformed some abuses in

the civil government of Spain, and accepted the annual

tribute and apparent submission of its military governor,

who wisely refused to trust his person in the palace of

Ravenna.d The Gothic sovereignty was established ,

from Sicily to the Danube, from Sirmium or Belgrade

to the Atlantic ocean; and the Greeks themselves have

acknowledged that Theodoric reigned over the fairest

portion of the western empire."

The union of the Goths and Romans might have fix- civil go-

ed for ages the transient happiness of Italy; and the first iuif ac-

of nations, a new people of free subjects and enlightened fj^^fj^

soldiers, might have gradually arisen from the mutuallaws-

emulation of their respective virtues. But the sublime

merit of guiding or seconding such a revolution, was not

reserved for the reign of Theodoric; he wanted either

the genius or the opportunities of a legislator ;f and while

he indulged the Goths in the enjoyment of rude liberty,

* Vol. 4. c. 38.

c Ennodius (p. 1610.) and Cassiodorius, in the royal name, (Var. 2. 41.)
record

his salutary protection of the Alemanni.

« The Golhic transactions in Gaul and Spain are represented with some
perplexity

in Cassiodorius, (Var. 3. 32. 38.41.43, 44.5.39.) Jornandes, (c. 58. p. 698,
099.)

and Procopius. Goth. lib. 1. c. 12. I will neither hear nor reconcile the long
and

contradictory arguments of the abbe Dubos and the count de Buat about the wars
of

Burgundy.

e Theophanes, p. 113.

'Procopius affirms that no laws whatsoever were promulgated by Theodoric, and

Hie succeeding kings of Italy. (Goth. lib. 2. c. 6.) He must mean in the
Gothic lan­

guage. A Latin edict of Theodoric is still extant, in one hundred and ril'ty-
four

articles.

