CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

that of a wild cat. While the nation trembled, while

Hormouz disguised his terror by the name of suspicion,

and his servants concealed their disloyalty under the

mask of fear, Bahram alone displayed his undaunted

courage and apparent fidelity: and as soon as he found

that no more than twelve thousand soldiers would follow

him against the enemy, he prudently declared, that to

this fatal number, heaven had reserved the honours of

the triumph. The steep and narrow descent of the Pule

Rudbarm or Hyrcanian rock, is the only pass through

which an army can penetrate into the territory of Rei and

the plains of Media. From the commanding heights,

a band of resolute men might overwhelm with stones

and darts the myriads of the Turkish host: their em­

peror and his son were transpierced with arrows; and

the fugitives were left, without council or provisions, to

the revenge of an injured people. The patriotism of the

Persian general was stimulated by his affection for the

city of his forefathers; in the hour of victory every pea­

sant became a soldier, and every soldier a hero; and

their ardour was kindled by the gorgeous spectacle of

beds, and thrones, and tables of massy gold, the spoils

of Asia, and the luxury of the hostile camp. A prince

of a less malignant temper could not easily have forgot­

ten his benefactor, and the secret hatred of Hormouz

was envenomed by a malicious report, that Bahram had

privately retained the most precious fruits of his Turkish

victory. But the approach of a Roman army on the

side of the Araxes compelled the implacable tyrant to

smile and to applaud; and the toils of Bahram were re­

warded with the permission of encountering a new ene­

my, by their skill and discipline more formidable than a

Scythian multitude. Elated by his recent success, he

despatched a herald with a bold defiance to the camp of

the Romans, requesting them to fix a day of battle, and

■ See an accurate description of this mountain by Olearios, (Voyage en Perse,

p. 997, 99B.) who ascended it with much difficulty and danger in his return
from Is­

pahan to the Caspian sea.

