CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tise of laws; in which he labours to deduce, from a ce­

lestial origin, the wisdom and justice of the Roman con­

stitution. The whole universe, according to his sublime

hypothesis, forms one immense commonwealth: gods

and men, who participate of the same essence, are mem­

bers of the same community; reason prescribes the law

of nature and nations; and all positive institutions, how­

ever modified by accident or custom, are drawn from the

rule of right, which the Deity has inscribed on every vir­

tuous mind. From these philosophical mysteries, he

mildly excludes the Sceptics who refuse to believe, and

the Epicureans who are unwilling to act. The latter dis­

dain the care of the republic; he advises them to slum­

ber in their shady gardens. But he humbly entreats

that the new academy would be silent, since her bold ob­

jections would too soon destroy the fair and well-ordered

structure of his lofty system.1 Plato, Aristotle, and Ze-

no, he represents as the only teachers who arm and in­

struct a citizen for the duties of social life. Of these,

the armour of the Stoics'1 was found to be of the firmest

temper; and it was chiefly worn, both for use and orna­

ment, in the schools of jurisprudence. From the por­

tico, the Roman civilians learned to live, to reason, and

to die: but they imbibed in some degree the prejudices

of the sect; the love of paradox, the pertinacious habits

of dispute, and a minute attachment to words and verbal

distinctions. The superiority of form to matter, was intro­

duced to ascertain the right of property: and the equality

of crimes is countenanced by an opinion of Trebatius,1

1 Perlarbatricem autem omnium harura rerum acadeiniam, hanc ab Arcesila et
Car-

neade recentem, exoremua at sileat, nam si invaserit in bsec, quaa satis scite
instructa

et composita videantnr, nimis edel rninas, quam quidem ego placare oopio,
submo-

vere non audeo. (de Legibus, 1. 13.) Prom this passage alone Bentley (Remarks
on

Freethinking, p. 250.) might have learned how firmly Cicero believed in the
spe­

cious doctrines which he has adorned.

k The Stoic philosophy was first taught at Rome by Panoetius, the friend of
the

younger Scipio. (see his life in the Mem. de l'Academie des Inscriptions,
torn. 10. p.

75—89.)

1 As he is quoted by TJpian. (leg. 40. ad Sabinum in Pandect, lib. 47. tit.
'i. leg.

21.) YetTrebatius, after he was a leading civiliam, qui familiam duxit, became
an

Epicurean. (Cicero ad Fam. 7. 5.) Perhaps he was not constant or sincere in
his

new sect. f . *

