CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tive of prudence or superstition,' determined his retreat

into the province of Albania, along the shores of the

Caspian; and his tents were most probably pitched in

the plains of Mogari," the favourite encampment of ori­

ental princes. In the course of this successful inroad, he

signalized the zeal and revenge of a Christian emperor:

at his command, the soldiers extinguished the fire, and

destroyed the temples of the Magi: the statues of Chos-

roes, who aspired to divine honours, were abandoned to

the flames ; and the ruins of Thebarma or Ormia* which

had given birth to Zoroaster himself, made some atone­

ment for the injuries of the holy sepulchre. A purer

spirit of religion was shewn in the relief and deliverance

of fifty thousand captives. Heraclius was rewarded by

their tears and grateful acclamations ; but this wise mea­

sure, which spread the fame of his benevolence, diffused

the murmurs of the Persians against the pride and obsti­

nacy of their own sovereign.

Amidst the glories of the succeeding campaign, He­

raclius is almost lost to our eyes, and to those of the By­

zantine historians.7 From the spacious and fruitful plains

of Albania, the emperor appears to follow the chain of

Hyrcanian mountains, to descend into the province of

Media or Irak, and to carry his victorious arms as far as

the royal cities of Casbin and Ispahan, which had never

been approached by a Roman conqueror. Alarmed by

i He opened the gospel, and applied or interpreted the first casual passage to
the

name and situation of Alhania. Theophanes, p. 258.

"The heath of Mogan, between the Cyras and the Araxes, is sixty parasangs in

length and twenty in breadth, (Olearius, p. 1023,1024.) abounding in waters
and

and frnitful pastures. (Hist, de Nader Shah, translated by Mr. Jones from a
Persian

MS. part 2. p. 2, 3.) See the encampments of Timur, (Hist. par Skerefeddin
Ati,

lib. 5. c. 37. lib. 6. c. 13.) and the coronation of Nader Shah. (Hist.
Persanue, p. 3

—13. and the English Life by Mr. Jones, p. 64, 65.)

x Theharma and Ormia, near the lake Spauto, are proved to be the same city by

D'Anville. (Memoires de l'Academie, tom. 28. p. 564, 565.) It is honoured as
the

hirth-place of Zoroaster, according to the Persians; (Schnlteni,1 Index
Geograph. p.

48.) and their tradition is fortified by M. Perron d'Anqnetil, (Mem. de
l'Acad. des

Insoript. tom. 31. p. 375.) with some texts from his, or their Zendavesta.

1 I cannot find, and (what is much more) M. D'Anville does not attempt to
seek,

the Bilhao, Tarentum, territory of the Huns, &c. mentioned by Theophaues. (p.
260

—262.) Eutychius, (Annal. tom. 2. p. 231, 232.) an insufficient anthor, names
As-

pahan ; and Cashin is most prohably the city of Sapor. Ispahan is twenty-four
days'

journey from Tauris, and Cashin half way between them. (Voyages de Tareriiier,
tom.

1. p. 63—82.)

