284 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

rity, more absolute in the affection of his troops, Narses

led a numerous and gallant army from Philippopolis to-

Salona, from whence he coasted the eastern side of the

Hadriatie as far as the confines of Italy. His progress

was checked. The east could not supply vessels capable

of transporting such multitudes of men and horses.

The Franks, who, in the general confusion, had usurpr

ed the greater part of the Venetian province, refused a

free passage to the friends of the Lombards. The station

of Verona was occupied by Teias, with the flower of the

^Gothic forces; and that skilful commander had over­

spread the adjacent country with the fall of woods and

the inundation of waters.1 In this perplexity, an officer

of experience proposed a measure, secure by the appear­

ance of rashness; that the Roman -army should cau­

tiously advance along the sea-shore, while the fleet pre­

ceded their march, and successively cast a bridge of boats

•over the mouths of the rivers, the Timavus, the Brenta,

the Adige, and the Po, that fall into the Hadriatic to the

north of Ravenna. Nine days he reposed in the city,

collected the fragments of the Italian army, and marched

towards Rimini to meet the defiance of an insulting

enemy.

Defeat and The prudence of Narses impelled him to speedy and

To'iia,9 decisive action. His powers were the last effort of the

joiy!'552' state: the cost of each day accumulated the enormous

account; and the nations, untrained to discipline or fa­

tigue, might be rashly provoked to turn their arms against

each other, or against their benefactor. The same con­

siderations might have tempered the ardour of Totila.

But he was conscious, that the clergy and people of Italy

aspired to a second revolution: he felt or suspected the

and educated in the Byzantine court by the various motives of policy, pride,
and

generosity. (Procop. Persic. lib. 1. c. 23.)

k In the time of Augustus, and in the middle ages, the whole waste from
Aqoileia

to Ravenna was covered with woods, lakes, and morasses. Man has sabdncd
nature,

and the land has been cultivated, since the waters are confmed and emhanked.

See the learned researches of Muratori, (Antiquitat. Italic medii AZii, tom.
1. dis­

sert. 21. p. 253, 354.) from Vitruvius, Strabo, Heiodian, old charters, and
looal

knowledge.

