DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

licited the friendship and aid of Chosroes. The saga­

cious monarch instantly discerned the use and impor­

tance of Colchos; and meditated a plan of conquest,

which was renewed at the end of a thousand years by

Shah Abbas, the wisest and most powerful of his suc­

cessors.1" His ambition was fired by the hope of launch­

ing a Persian navy from the Phasis, of commanding

the trade and navigation of the Euxine sea, of deso­

lating the coast of Pontus and Bithynia, of distressing,

perhaps of attacking, Constantinople, and of persuading

the barbarians of Europe to second his arms and coun­

sels against the common enemy of mankind. Under the

pretence of a Scythian war, he silently led his troops to

the frontiers of Iberia; the Colchian guides were pre­

pared to conduct them through the woods and along the

precipices of mount Caucasus*; and a narrow path was

laboriously formed into a safe and spacious highway, for

the march of cavalry, and even of elephants. Gubazes

laid his person and diadem at the feet of the king of Per­

sia; his Colchians imitated the submission of their prince:

and after the walls of Petra had been shaken, the Roman

garrison prevented, by a capitulation, the impending fury

of the last assault. But the Lazi soon discovered, that

their impatience had urged them to choose an evil more

intolerable than the calamities which they strove to es­

cape. The monopoly of salt and corn was effectually

removed by the loss of those valuable commodities. The

authority of a Roman legislator was succeeded by the

pride of an oriental despot, who beheld with equal dis­

dain, the slaves whom he had exalted, and the kings

whom he had humbled before the footstool of his throne.

The adoration of fire was introduced into Colchos by

the zeal of the Magi: their intolerant spirit provoked

the fervour of a Christian people; and the prejudice of

V See the amusing letters of Pietro della Valle, the Roman traveller. (Viaggi,
torn.

2. p. 207. 209. 213. 216. 266. 286. 300. torn. 3. p. 54. 127.) In the years
1618,

1G19, and 1620, he conversed with Shall Abbas, and strongly encouraged a
design

which might have united Persia and Europe agaiust their common enemy the

Turk.

