474 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

the ruin of the proudest monument of Christianity was

vehemently urged by the intolerant spirit of the Magi;

and he could inlist, for this holy warfare, an army of six

and twenty thousand Jews, whose furious bigotry might

compensate, in some degree, for the want of valour and

discipline. After the reduction of Galilee, and the re­

gion beyond the Jordan, whose resistance appears to have

delayed the fate of the capital, Jerusalem itself was taken

by assault. The sepulchre of Christ, and the stately

churches of Helena and Constantine, were consumed, or

at least damaged, by the flames; the devout offerings of

three hundred years were rifled in one sacrilegious day;

the patriarch Zachariah, and the true cross, were trans­

ported into Persia; and the massacre of ninety thousand

Christians is imputed to the Jews and Arabs who swelled

the disorder of the Persian march. The fugitives of

Palestine were entertained at Alexandria by the charity

of John the archbishop, who is distinguished among a

crowd of saints by the epithet of alms-giver :v and the re­

venues of the church, with a treasure of three hundred

thousand pounds, were restored to the true proprietors,

the poor of every country and every denomination. But

Egypt itself, the only province which had been exempt,

since the time of Diocletian, from foreign and domestic

of Egypt, war, was again subdued by the successors of Cyrus. Pe-

a. d. 616. jusjumj f-ne of tnat impervious country, was surprised

by the cavalry of the Persians: they passed, with impu­

nity, the innumerable channels of the Delta, and explored

the long valley of the Nile, from the pyramids of Mem­

phis to the confines of ./Ethiopia. Alexandria might

have been relieved by a naval force, but the archbishop

and the prefect embarked for Cyprus; and Chosroes en­

tered the second city of the empire, which still preserved

a wealthy remnant of industry and commerce. His west­

ern trophy was erected, not on the walls of Carthage/*

P The life of this wortby saint is composed by Leontius, a contemporary
hishop;

and I find in Baronins, (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 610. no. 10, &c.) and Fleury,
(torn.

8. p. 235—*242.) sufficient extracts of this edifying work.

i The error of Bnronius, and many others who hare carried the arms of Chosroes

