CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4Q5

cities and palaces of Assyria were open for the first time

to the Romans. By a just gradation of magnificent

scenes, they penetrated to the royal seat of Dastagerd,

and though much of the treasure had been removed, and

much had been expended, the remaining wealth appears

to have exceeded their hopes, and even to have satiated

their avarice* Whatever could not be easily transported,

they consumed with fire, that Chosroes might feel the

anguish of those wounds, which he had so often inflict-"

ed on the provinces of the empire: and justice might

allow the excuse, if the desolation had been confined to

the works of regal luxury, if national hatred, military li­

cence, and religious zeal, had not wasted with equal rage

the habitations and the temples of the guiltless subject.

The recovery of three hundred Roman standards, and

the deliverance of the numerous captives of Edessa and

Alexandria, reflect a purer glory on the arms of Hera-

clius. From the palace of Dastagerd, he pursued his

march within a few miles of Modain or Ctesiphon, till

he was stopped on the banks of the Arba, by the diffi­

culty of the passage, the rigour of the season, and per­

haps the fame of an impregnable capital. The return of

the emperor is marked by the modern name of the city of

Sherhzour; he fortunately passed mount Zara, before the

snow, which fell incessantly thirty-four days, and the citi­

zens of Gandzaca, or Tauris, were compelled to entertain

his soldiers and their horses with an hospitable reception.™

When the ambition of Chosroes was reduced to the Plight of

defence of his hereditary kingdom, the love of glory, or a. D™6«f,

even the sense of shame, should have urged him to meet Dec-29-

his rival in the field. In the battle of Nineveh, his cou­

rage might have taught the Persians to vanquish, or he

might have fallen with honour by the lance of a Roman

emperor. The successor of Cyrus chose rather, at a se­

cure distance, to expect the event, to assemble the relics

of the defeat, and to retire by measured steps before the

■ In descrihing this last expedition of Heraclius, the facts, the places, and
th«

dates, of Theophanes, (p. 265—271.) are so accurate and autheniio that he must

have followed the original letters of the emperor, of which the Paschal
Chronicle

has preserved (p. 398—105.) a very carious specimen. . ,

