498 DECLINE AND FALL - [CHAP. XLVI.

not be denied, that tyrants of every age and sect are the

best entitled to such infernal abodes. The glory of the

house of Sassan ended with the life of Chosroes; his un­

natural son enjoyed only eight months the fruit of his

crimes; and in the space of four years the regal title was

assumed by nine candidates, who disputed, with the

sword or dagger, the fragments of an exhausted mon­

archy. Every province, and each city of Persia, was the

scene of independence, of discord, and of blood, and the

state of anarchy prevailed about eight years longer, till

the factions were silenced and united under the common

yoke of the Arabian caliphs.' ,

Treaty of As soon as the mountains became passable, the empe-

peace be- , r i

tween the ror received the welcome news of the success of the con-

pTres6,™ spiracy, the death of Chosroes, and the elevation of his

Marcii6&e' ^dest son to the throne of Persia. The authors of the

revolution, eager to display their merits in the count or

camp of Tauris, preceded the ambassadors of Siroes, who

delivered the letters of their master to his brother the em­

peror of the Romans.1, In the language of the usurpers

of every age, he imputes his own crimes to the Deity, and,

without degrading his equal majesty, he offers to recon­

cile the long discord of the two nations, by a treaty of

peace and alliance more durable than brass or iron. The

conditions of the treaty were easily defined and faithfully

executed. In the recovery of the standards and prisoners

which had fallen into the hands of the Persians, the em­

peror imitated the example of Augustus: their care of

the national dignity was celebrated by the poets of the

times, but the decay of genius may be measured by the

distance between Horace and George of Pisidia; the sub­

jects and brethren of Heraclius were redeemed from per­

secution, slavery, and exile; but instead of the Roman

vioSn tit t« xara^Oona .. . eic to rup axaraff-^ta-roVj &c.) in the letter of
Heraclius: he

almost applauds the parricide of Siroes as an act of piety and justice.

1 The best oriental accounts of this last period of the Sassanian kings are
found

io Entychius, (Annal. tom. 2. p. 251—256.) who dissembles the parricide of
Siroes;

d'Herbelot, (Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 789.) and Assemanni, Bibliothec.
Oriental,

tom. 3. p. 415—420.

r The letter of Siroes in the Paschal Chronicle, (p, 402.) unfortunately ends
be­

fore he proceeds to business. The treaty appears in its execution, in the
histories

of Theophancs and Nicephorus. . . «

