CHAP. XLIV.} OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

master might alienate or destroy without being responsi­

ble to any earthly tribunal. The hand which bestowed

the daily sustenance might resume the voluntary gift,

and whatever was acquired by the labour or fortune of

the son, was immediately lost in the property of the fa­

ther. His stolen goods (his oxen or his children) might

be recovered by the same action of theft ;m and if either

had been guilty of a trespass, it was in his own option to

compensate the damage, or resign to the injured party

the obnoxious animal. At the call of indigence or ava­

rice, the master of a family could dispose of his children

or his slaves. But the condition of the slave was far

more advantageous, since he regained by the first manut

mission his alienated freedom: the son was again re­

stored to his unnatural father; he might be condemned

,to servitude a second and a third time, and it was not

till after the third sale and deliverance," that he was en>

franchised from the domestic power which had been so

repeatedly abused. According to his discretion, a father

might chastise the real or imaginary faults of his chil*

dren, by stripes, by imprisonment, by exile, by sending

them to the country to work in chains among the mean­

est of his servants. The majesty of a parent was armed

with the power of life and death;° and the examples of

such bloody executions, which were sometimes praised

and never punished, may be traced in the annals of

,Rom,e, beyond the times of Pompey and Augustus.

Neither age, nor rank, nor the consular office, nor the

honours of a triumph, could exempt the most illustrious

citizen from the bonds of filial subjection :p his own de-

■» Pandect.-lib. il. tit. 2. leg. 14. no. 13. leg. 38. no. 1. Suoh was the
decision

of Ulpian and Paul.'

< Th&trin'a mancipatio is most clearly defined bj Ulpian (Fragment. 10. p.
591,

592. edit. Schulting), and best illustrated in the Antiquities of Heineccias.

9 By Justinian, the old law, the jns necis of the Roman father, (fnstltut.
lib. 4.

lit. 9. no. 7), is reported and reprohated. Some legal vestiges are left in
the Pan­

dects, (lib. 43. tit. 29. leg. 3. no. 4.) and the Collatio Leguni Romanaruni
at Mosai-

caram. (tit. 2. no. 3. p. 189.)

P Except on public occasions, and in the actual exercise of his office.
Inpnblicis

locis atqne muneribus, atque actionibus patrum, jura cam filiorum qui in
magistrat a

sunt, potestatibus collata interqoiescere paululum et connivere, &c.
(Aal.Gelliun,

