DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV.

to the gates of Ravenna and Rome, the inland regions of

Italy became, without a battle or a siege, the lasting pa­

trimony of the Lombards. The submission of the peo­

ple invited the barbarian to assume the character of a

lawful sovereign, and the helpless exarch was confined to

the office of announcing to the emperor Justin, the ra­

pid and irretrievable loss of his provinces and cities.' One

city, which had been diligently fortified by the Goths,

resisted the arms of a new invader; and while Italy was

subdued by the flying detachments of the Lombards, the

royal camp was fixed above three years before the west­

ern gate of Ticinum, or Pavia. The same courage which

obtains the esteem of a civilized enemy, provokes the

fury of a savage, and the impatient besieger had bound

himself by a tremendous oath, that age, and sex, and

dignity, should be confounded in a general massacre.

The aid of famine at length enabled him to execute his

bloody vow; but as Alboin entered the gate, his horse

stumbled, fell, and could not be raised from the ground.

One of his attendants was prompted by compassion, or

piety, to interpret this miraculous sign as the wrath of hea­

ven : the conqueror paused and relented ; he sheathed his

sword, and, peacefully reposing himself in the palace of

Theodoric, proclaimed to the trembling multitude, that

they should live andobey. Delighted with the situation of

the city, which was endeared to his pride by the difficulty

of the purchase, the prince of the Lombards disdained the

ancient glories of Milan; and Pavia, during some ages,

was respected as the capital of the kingdom of Italy."

The reign of the founder was splendid and transient;

and before he could regulate his new conquests, Alboin

'fell a sacrifice to domestic treason and female revenge. In

• Paul has given a description of Italy, as it was then divided, into eighteen
re­

gions, (lih. 2. c. 14—24.) The Dissertatio Chorographica de Italia Medii jEvi,

by father Beretti, a Benedictine monk, and regius professor at Pavia, has been
use­

fully consulted.

» For the conquest of Italy, seethe original materials of Paul, (lib. 2. c.
7—10.

12.14. 25—27.) the eloquent narrative ofSigonius, (tom. 2. de Regno Italian,
lib. 1.

p. 13—19.) and the correct and critical review of Muratoii. (Annali d'ltalia,
tom. 5.

p. 164—180.)

