128 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. IU,

In three generations prosperity and a warm climate had

dissolved the hardy virtue of the Vandals, who insensibly

became the most luxurious of mankind. In their villas

and gardens, which might deserve the Persian name of

paradise* they enjoyed a cool and elegant repose; and,,

after the daily use of the bath, the barbarians were seated

at a table profusely spread with the delicacies of the land

and sea. Their silken robes, loosely flowing, after the

fashion of the Medes, were embroidered with gold: love

and hunting were the labours of their life; and their va­

cant hours were amused by pantomimes, chariot-races,

and the music and dances of the theatre.

hi" ^n a marcn °ften or twelve days, the vigilance of Be-.

a first bat- lisarius was constantly awake and active against his un­

seen enemies, by whom, in every place, and at every

hour, he might be suddenly attacked. An officer of

confidence and merit, John the Armenian, led the van­

guard of three hundred horse; six hundred Massageta?

covered at a pertain distance the left flank; and the

whole fleet, steering along the coast, seldom lost sight of

the army, which moved each day about twelve miles, and.

lodged in the evening in strong camps or in friendly

towns. The near approach of the Romans to Carthage

filled the mind of Gelimer with anxiety and terror. He

prudently wished to protract the war till his brother, with,

his veteran troops, should return from the conquest of

Sardinia; and he now lamented the rash policy of his.

ancestors, who, by destroying the fortifications of Africa^

had left him only the dangerous resource of risking a bat­

tle in the neighbourhood of his capital. The Vandal

conquerors, from their original number of fifty thousand,

were multiplied, without including their women and

s children, to one hundred and sixty thousand fighting

men: and such forces, animated with valour and union,

* nafaSsicot xttMurm; wmanm Ann/xti; nrfj.ii. The paradises, a name and fashion  
adopted from Persia, may be represented by tbe royal garden of Ispahan.
(Voyage d*.

Olearius, p. 774.) See.in the Greek romances, their most perfect model.
(Longus,

Pastoral, lib. 4. p. 99.101. Achilles Tatius, lib. 1. p. 2f>, 23.)

