320 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

rable cavalry. I am not ignorant of the road which

they have followed to invade your empire; nor can I be

deceived by the vain pretence, that mount Caucasus is

the impregnable barrier of the Romans. I know the

course of the Niester, the Danube, and the Hebrus; the

most warlike nations have yielded to the arms of the

Turks; and from the rising to the setting sun the earth

is my inheritance." Notwithstanding this menace, a

sense of mutual advantage soon renewed the alliance of

the Turks and Romans: but the pride of the great khan

survived his resentment: and when he announced an

important conquest to his friend the emperor Maurice,

he styled himself the master of the seven races, and the

lord of the seven climates of the world."

state of Disputes having often arisen between the sovereigns

a!d!*500- of Asia, for the title of king of the world; while the

530- contest has proved that it could not belong to either of

the competitors. The kingdom of the Turks was

bounded by the Oxus or Gihon; and Touran was sepa­

rated by that great river from the rival monarch of Iran,

or Persia,.which, in a smaller compass, contained perhaps

a larger measure of power and population. The Per^

sians, who alternately invaded and repulsed the Turks and

the Romans, were still ruled by the house of Sassan,

which ascended the throne three hundred years before

the accession of Justinian. His contemporary, Cabades,

or Kobad, had been successful in war against the empe­

ror Anastasius; but the reign of that prince was distracted

by civil and religious troubles. A prisoner in the hands

of his subjects; an exile among the enemies of Persia;

he recovered his liberty by prostituting the honour of

his wife, and regained his kingdom with the dangerous

and mercenary aid of the barbarians, who had slain his

father. His nobles were suspicious that Kobad never

forgave the authors of his expulsion, or even those of

• All the details of these Turkish and Roman embassies, so ourions in the
history

of human manners, are drawn from the Extracts of Menaniler, (p. 106—110. 151—

154.161—164.) in which we often regret the want of order and connexion. <

