130 DECLINE AND FALL [CftAP. XLI.

mable moments in the discharge of a vain, though pious,

duty to the dead. While his spirit was broken by this

mournful office, he heard the trumpet of Belisarius, who,

leaving Antonina and his infantry in the camp, pressed

forwards with his guards and the remainder of the cavalry

to rally his flying troops, and to restore the fortune of

the day. Much room could not be found in this disor­

derly battle for the talents of a general; but the king

fled before the hero; and the Vandals, accustomed only

to a Moorish enemy, were incapable of withstanding the

arms and discipline of the Romans. Gelimer retired

with hasty steps towards the desert of Numidia; but he

had soon the consolation of learning, that his private or­

ders for the execution of Hilderic and his captive friends

had been faithfully obeyed. The tyrant's revenge was

useful only to his enemies. The death of a lawful prince

excited the compassion of his people; his life might have

perplexed the victorious Romans; and the lieutenant of

Justinian, by a crime of which he was innocent, was re­

lieved from the painful alternative of forfeiting his ho­

nour or relinquishing his conquests.

Redaction As soon as the tumult had subsided, the several parts

a. d' 533!' of the army informed each other of the accidents of the

Sept. 10. . ancj Be]isarjus pitched his camp on the field of vic­

tory, to which the tenth mile-stone from Carthage had

applied the Latin appellation of decimus. From a wise

suspicion of the stratagems and resources of the Vandals,

he marched the next day in order of battle, halted in the

evening before the gates of Carthage, and allowed a

night of repose, that he might not, in darkness and dis­

order, expose the city to the license of the soldiers, or

the soldiers themselves to the secret ambush of the city.

But as the fears of Belisarius were the result of calm and

intrepid reason, he was soon satisfied that he might con­

fide, without danger, in the peaceful and friendly aspect

of the capital. Carthage blazed with innumerable

torches, the signals of the public joy the chain was^re-

