<l6 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLy.

quaint expression of" Evagrius) a perfect aristocracy of

reason and virtue. Some suspicion will degrade the tes­

timony of a subject, though he protests that his secret

praise should never reach the ears of his sovereign,'1 and

some failings seem to place the character of Maurice be­

low the purer merit of his predecessor. His cold and

reserved demeanor might be imputed to arrogance; his

justice was not always exempt from cruelty, nor his cle­

mency from weakness; and his rigid economy too often

exposed him to the reproach of avarice. But the rational

wishes of an absolute monarch must tend to the happi­

ness of his people; Maurice was endowed with sense

and courage to promote that happiness, and his adminis­

tration was directed by the principles and example of

Tiberius. The pusillanimity ofthe Greeks had introduc­

ed so complete a separation between the offices of king

and of general, that a private soldier who had deserved

and obtained the purple, seldom or never appeared at the

head of his armies. Yet the emperor Maurice enjoyed

the glory of restoring the Persian monarch to his throne:

his lieutenants waged a doubtful war against the Avars of

the Danube, and he cast an eye of pity, of ineffectual

pity, on the abject and distressful state of his Italian pro­

vinces.

Distress of From Italy the emperors were incessantly tormented

3tal>- by tales of misery and demands of succour, which extort­

ed the humiliating confession of their own weakness.

The expiring dignity of Rome was only marked by the

freedom and energy of her complaints. "If you are in­

capable (she said) of delivering us from the swords of the

Lombards, save us at least from the calamity of famine."

Tiberius forgave the reproach, and relieved the distress:

a supply of corn was transported from Egypt to the Ti­

ber; and the Roman people, invoking the name, not of

h Aurcjtgar&jg ovrftiC yEvo^Evo? r«v [J.ZV oyKm^tnuav rouv waBm Ex r*J;
aXEiet; E^EinXarW-i

■^i>Xnc afiff-roxgetrEtav $6 ev to*; Eetyrou Xcyia-fAQi; naraa-rwapm;,
Kvagrius composed

hi* history In the twelfth year of Maurice; and be had been so wisely
indiscreet, that

ttie emperor knew and rewarded his favourable.opinion. (lib. 6. c. 24.)

