CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 435

paid to his memory the same tribute, which he freely

granted to the virtue of his own or the preceding gene­

ration. The celestial honours have been liberally bestow­

ed by the authority of the popes; but Gregory is the last

of their own order whom they have presumed to inscribe

in the calendar of saints.

Their temporal power insensibly arose from the cala- »nd tr­

inities of the times: and the Roman bishops, who have ve™mwt;

deluged Europe and Asia with blood, were compelled to

reign as the ministers of charity and peace. I. The

church of Rome, as it has been formerly observed, was

endowed with ample possessions in Italy, Sicily, and the

more distant provinces; and her agents, who were fre­

quently subdeacons, had acquired a civil, and even cri­

minal, jurisdiction over their tenants and husbandmen.

The successor of St. Peter administered his patrimony estates,

with the temper of a vigilant and moderate landlord ;d

and the epistles of Gregory are filled with salutary in­

structions to abstain from doubtful or vexatious law­

suits; to preserve the integrity of weights and measures;

to grant every reasonable delay, and to reduce the capi­

tation of the slaves of the glebe, who purchased the right

of marriage by the payment of an arbitrary fine.* The

rent or the produce of these estates was transported to

the mouth of the Tiber, at the risk and expense of the

pope; in the use of wealth he acted like a faithful stew­

ard of the church and the poor, and liberally applied to

their wants the inexhaustible resources of abstinence and

order. The voluminous account of his receipts and dis-

cated the right of Gregory to the entire nonsense of the Dialogues. Dapin
(tom. 5.

p. 138.) does not think that any one will vouch for the truth of all these
miracles; I

should like to know how many of them he believed himself.

d Baronius is unwilling to expatiate on the care of the patrimonies, lest he
should

betray that they consisted not of kingdoms but farms. The French writers, the
Be­

nedictine editors, (tom. 4. lib. 3. p. 272, &c.) and Fleury, (tom. 8. p. 29,
&c.) are

not afraid of entering into these humble, though useful, details; and the
humanity of

Fleury dwells on the social virtues of Gregory.

* I much suspect that this pecuniary fine on the marriages of villains produced the  
famous, and often fabulous, right, de cuissage, de marquette, &c. With the
consent

of her hushand, a handsome bride might commute the payment in the arms of a
young

landlord, and the mutual favour might afford a precedent of local rather than
legal

tyranny,"

