372 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

the simplicity of the civil law was never clouded by the

long and intricate entails which confine the happiness

and freedom of unborn generations.

C'u'iCil'i» Conquest and the formalities of law established the

use of codicils. If a Roman was surprised by death in a

remote province of the empire, he addressed a short epistle

to his legitimate or testamentary heir; who fulfilled with

honour, or neglected with impunity, this last request,

which the judges before the age of Augustus were not

authorized to enforce. A codicil might be expressed in

any mode, or in any language; but the subscription of

five witnesses must declare that it was the genuine com^

position of the author. His intention, however laudable,

was sometimes illegal; and the invention of Jidei-com-

missa, or trusts, arose from the struggle between natural

justice and positive jurisprudence, A stranger of Greece

or Africa might be the friend or benefactor of a childless

Roman, but none, except a fellow^citizen, could act as

his heir. The Voconian law, which abolished female

succession, restrained the legacy or inheritance of a wo­

man to the sum of one hundred thousand sesterces ;r and

an only daughter was condemned almost as an alien in

her father's house. The zeal of friendship, and parental

affection, suggested a liberal artifice: a qualified citizen

was named in the testament, with a prayer or injunction

that he would restore the inheritance to the person for

whom it was truly intended. Various was the conduct

of the trustees in this painful situation: they had sworn

to observe the laws of theircountry, but honour prompted

them to violate their oath; and if they preferred their

interest under the mask of patriotism, they forfeited the

esteem of every virtuous mind. The declaration of Au­

gustus relieved their doubts, gave a legal sanction to con­

fidential testaments and codicils, and gently unravelled

the forms and restraints of the republican jurisprudence.5

'Dion Cassius (tom. 2. lib. 56. p. 814. with Reimar's Notes) specifies in
Greek

money the 6Um of twenty-five thousand drachms.

* 1■he revolutions of the Roman laws of inheritance are finely, though sometimes  
faucifully, deduced by Montesquieu. (lispiit. des LoU, lib. s!7.) • *'

