CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the sacred ensign of the cross was displayed in the front,

and Maurice reviewed, with conscious pride, the arms

and numbers of the veterans who had fought and con­

quered beyond the Tigris. Anchialus saw the last term

of his progress by sea and land; he solicited, without

success, a miraculous answer to his nocturnal prayers;

his mind was confounded by the death of a favourite

horse, the encounter of a wild boar, a storm of wind and

rain, and the birth of a monstrous child, and he forgot

that the best of omens is to unsheath our sword in the

defence of our country." Under the pretence of receiving

the ambassadors of Persia, the emperor returned to Con­

stantinople, exchanged the thoughts of war for those of

devotion, and disappointed the public hope, by his ab­

sence and the choice of his lieutenants. The blind par­

tiality of fraternal love might excuse the promotion of

his brother Peter, who fled with equal disgrace from the

barbarians, from his own soldiers, and from the inhabit­

ants of a Roman city. That city, if we may credit the

resemblance of name and character, was the famous Azi-

muntium,n which had alone repelled the tempest of Attila.

The example of her warlike youth was propagated to

succeeding generations; and they obtained, from the

first or the second Justin, an honourable privilege, that

their valour should be always reserved for the defence of

their native country. The brother of Maurice attempted

to violate this privilege, and to mingle a patriot band with

the mercenaries of his camp; they retired to the church,

he was not awed by the sanctity of the place; the peo­

ple rose in their cause, the gates were shut, the ramparts

were manned; and the cowardice of Peter was found

equal to his arrogance and injustice. The military fame

m 'Ej; oiwoc ttficro; a/jtmstrBai wt^i vrarpni. Iliad. 12. 243.

This noble Terse, which unites the spirit of a hero with the reason of a sage,
may

prove that Homer was in every light superior to bis age and country.

"Tbeophvlact, lib. 7. c. 3. On the evidence ol'this fact, which had not
occurred

to my memory, the candid reader will correct and excuse a note in the fourth
volume

of this History, p. 2o7, which hastens the decay of Asiinus, or Azimunlioui:
another

century of patriotism and valour is cheaply purchased by such a confession.

2 H 2

