CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. l63

Restore the children to their parents, the wives to their

husbands; and shew them, by your generosi ty, of what

friends they have obstinately deprived themselves." The

city was saved by the virtue and authority of its conque­

ror/ and when the Neapolitans returned to their houses,

they found some consolation in the secret enjoyment of

their hidden treasures. The barbarian garrison enlisted

in the service of the emperor; Apulia and Calabria, de­

livered from the odious presence of the Goths, acknow­

ledged his dominion; and the tusks of the Calydonian

boar, which were still shewn at Beneventum, are cu­

riously described by the historian of Belisarius."

The faithful soldiers and citizens of Naples had ex- vnigw.

pected their deliverance from a prince, who remained nX,

the inactive and almost indifferent spectator of their A^ff6'

ruin. Theodatus secured his person within the walls of A- D-5*L

Rome, while his cavalry advanced forty miles on the Ap-

pian way, and encamped in the Pomptine marshes;

which, by a canal of nineteen miles in length, had been

recently drained and converted into excellent pastures.b

But the principal forces of the Goths were dispersed in

Dalmatia, Venetia, and Gaul; and the feeble mind of

their king was confounded by the unsuccessful event of

a divination, which seemed to presage the downfall of

his empire.0 The most abject slaves have arraigned the

guilt, or weakness, of an unfortunate master. The cha­

racter of Theodatus was rigorously scrutinized by a free

1 Belisarius was reproved by pope Sylverius for the massacre. . He repeopled

Naples, and imported colonies of African captives into Sicily, Calabria,'and
Apulia

(Hist. Miscell. lib, 16. in Muratori, torn. 1. p. 106,107). ■ „.

* Beneventum was built by Diomede, the nephew of Meleager. (Ciuver. torn. 2.  
p. 1193, H96.) Tho Calydonian hunt is a picture of savage life. (Ovid.
Metainorph.

lib. 8.) Thirty or forty heroes were leagued against a hog: the brutes (not
tho

hog) quarrelled with a lady for the head.

b The Veceur.&viitm is strangely confounded by Cluverius (torn. 2. p. 1007.)
with

the river Ufens. It was in truth a canal of nineteen miles, from Forum Appii
toTer-

raciua, ou which Horace embarked in the night. The Decennovium, which is men-
*

tioHed by Lucan, Dion Cassius and Cassiodorius, has been sufficiently ruined,
re­

stored, and obliterated. (d'Anville, Analyse de I'ltalie, p. 185, &c.)

c A Jew gratified his contempt and hatred for all the Christians, by inclosing
three

bands, each often hogs, and discriminated by the names of Goths, Greeks, and
Ho- 1

mans. Of the first, almost all were found dead—almost all the second were
alive—

of the third, half dead, and the rest lost their bristles. No unsuitable
emblem of the

event.

