~i!HAP. XLII.j OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 247

of these valiant men deserves to be more distinctly no­

ticed. Seven hundred had perished in the siege, two

thousand three hundred survived to defend the breach.

One thousand and seventy were destroyed with fire and

sword in the last assault; and if seven hundred and thirty

were made prisoners, only eighteen among them were

found without the marks of honourable wounds. The

remaining five hundred escaped into the citadel, which

they maintained without any hopes of relief, rejecting

the fairest terms of capitulation and service, till they

were lost in the flames. They died in obedience to the

commands of their prince; and such examples of loyalty

and valour might excite their countrymen to deeds of

equal despair and more prosperous event. The instant

demolition of the works of Petra confessed the astonish­

ment and apprehension of the conqueror.

A Spartan would have praised and pitied the virtue of The 01-

these heroic slaves; but the tedious warfare and alter- Lazic war

nate success of the Roman and Persian arms cannot de- tl^*9

tain the attention of posterity at the foot of mount Cau­

casus. The advantages obtained by the troops of Jus­

tinian were more frequent and splendid; but the forces

of the great king were continually supplied, till they

amounted to eight elephants and seventy thousand men,

including twelve thousand Scythian allies, and above

three thousand Dilemites, who descended by their free

choice from the hills of Hyrcania, and were equally for­

midable in close or in distant combat. The siege of

Archaeopolis, a name imposed or corrupted by the

Greeks, was raised with some loss and precipitation; but

the Persians occupied the passes of Iberia: Colchos was

enslaved by their forts and garrisons; they devoured the

scanty sustenance of the people; and the prince of the

Lazi fled into the mountains. In the Roman camp faith

and discipline were unknown; and the independent

leaders, who were invested with equal power, disputed

with each other the pre-eminence of vice and corruption.

