CHAP. XLVl.] OF TllE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4Q7

emperdr: he wept with impotent rage over the ruins of

his Assyrian palaces, and disregarded too long the rising

murmurs of the nation, who complained that their lives

and fortunes were sacrificed to the obstinacy of an old

man. That unhappy old man was himself tortured with

the sharpest pains both of mind and body; and, in the

consciousness of his approaching end, he resolved to fix

the tiara on the head of Merdaza, the most favoured of

his sons. But the will of Chosroes was no longer reve­

red, and Siroes, who gloried in the rank and merit of

his mother Sira, had conspired with the malecontents

to assert and anticipate the rights of primogeniture."

Twenty-two satraps, they styled themselves patriots,

were tempted by the wealth and honours of a new reign:

to the soldiers, the heir of Chosroes promised an increase

of pay: to the Christians, the free exercise of their re­

ligion: to the captives, liberty and rewards; and to the

nation, instant peace and the reduction of taxes. It was

determined by the conspirators that Siroes, with the en­

signs of royalty, should appear in the camp; and if the

enterprise should fail, his escape was contrived to the im­

perial court. But the new monarch was saluted with una­

nimous acclamations; the flight of Chosroes (yet where He;«de-

could he have fled ?) was rudely arrested, eighteen sons a?d!'g28,

were massacred before his face, and he was thrown into-^'J^.

a dungeon, where he expired on the fifth day. Thedere<l b*

_ 1 J Ins son

Greeks and modern Persians minutely describe how siroes,

Chosroes was insulted, and famished, and tortured, by Feb-28'

the command of an inhuman son, who so far surpassed

the example of his father: but at the time of his death,

what tongue would relate the story of the parricide ? what

eye could penetrate into the tower of darkness? Accord­

ing to the faith and mercy of his Christian enemies, he

sunk without hope into a still deeper abyss ;p and it will

° The authentic narrative of llie fall of Chosroes is contained in the letters
of He«

raclins, (Cbron. Paschal, p. 398.) and the history of Theophanes, (p. 271.)

P On the first rumonr of the death of Chosroes, an Heracliad in two cantos was

instantly pnblisbed at Constantinople by George of Pisidia, (p. 97—-105.) A
priest

and a poet might very properly exult in the damnation of the public enemy :
(i/uawroy

tv 7rcgTapa>, v. 56.) but such mean revenge is unworthy of a king and a
conqueror;

and I am sorry to find so much black superstition (0£ofta^s; Xos-fcn; ssrf 7i
xai nrrce[xct

