86 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP..-XL.

more spacious plan was described, and, as it required the

consent of some proprietors of ground, they obtained the

most exorbitant terms from the eager desires and timo­

rous conscience of the monarch. Anthemius formed

the design, and his genius directed the hands often thou­

sand workmen, whose payment in pieces of fine silver

was never delayed beyond the evening. The emperor

himself, clad in a linen tunic, surveyed each day their

rapid progress, and encouraged their diligence by his fa­

miliarity, his zeal, and his rewards. The new cathedral

of St. Sophia was consecrated by the patriarch, five years

eleven months and ten days from the first foundation;

and, in the midst of the solemn festival, Justinian ex­

claimed with devout vanity, "Glory be to God, who

hath thought me worthy to accomplish so great a work.:

I have vanquished thee, O Solomon !"m But the pride

of the Roman Solomon, before twenty years had elapsed,

was humbled by an earthquake, which overthrew the

eastern part of the dome. Its splendour was again re­

stored by the perseverance of the same prince; and, in

the thirty-sixth year of his reign, Justinian celebrated

the second dedication of a temple, which remains, after

twelve centuries, a stately monument of his fame. The

architecture of St. Sophia, which is now converted into

the principal mosch, has been imitated by the Turkish

sultans, and that venerable pile continues to excite the

fond admiration of the Greeks, and the more rational cu-

Descrip- riosity of European travellers. The eye of the spectator

is disappointed by an irregular prospect of half domes and

shelving roofs: the western front, the principal approach,

is destitute of simplicity and magnificence: and the scale

of dimensions has been much surpassed by several of

the Latin cathedrals. But the architect, who first erected

m Solomon's temple was surrounded with courts, porticoes, &c. but the proper

structure of the house of God was no more (if we take the Egyptian or Hebrew
cu­

hit at twenty-two inches) than fifty-five feet in height, thirty-six and two-
thirds in

breadth, and one hundred and ten in length—a small parish-church, says
Prideaux

(Connex. vol. 1. p. 144, folio); but few sanctuaries could be valued at four
or five

millions starling!

