CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

provide all the instruments of attack which antiquity had

invented. Fascines were prepared to fill the ditches,

scaling ladders to ascend the walls. The largest trees

of the forest supplied the timbers of four battering rams;

their heads were armed with iron; they were suspended

by ropes, and each of them was worked by the labour of

fifty men. The lofty wooden turrets moved on wheels or

rollers, and formed a spacious platform of the level of the

rampart. On the morning of the nineteenth day, a ge­

neral attack was made from the Preenestine gate to the

Vatican: seven Gothic columns, with their military en­

gines, advanced to the assault; and the Romans who

lined the ramparts, listened with doubt and anxiety to

the cheerful assurances of their commander. As soon

as the enemy approached the ditch, Belisarius himself

drew the first arrow; and such was his strength and

dexterity, that he transfixed the foremost of the barba­

rian leaders. A shout of applause and victory was re­

echoed along the wall. He drew a second arrow, and

the stroke was followed with the same success and the

same acclamation. The Roman general then gave the

word, that the archers should aim at the teams of oxen;

they were instantly covered with mortal wounds; the

towers which they drew, remained useless and immove­

able, and a single moment disconcerted the laborious pro­

jects of the king of the Goths. After this disappoint­

ment, Vitiges still continued, or feigned to continue, the

assault of the Salarian gate, that he might divert the

attention of his adversary, while his principal forces more

strenuously attacked the Praenestine gate and the sepul­

chre of Hadrian, at the distance of three miles from each

other. Near the former, the double walls of the Viva­

rium"1 were low or broken; the fortification of the latter

were feebly guarded: the vigour of the Goths was ex­

cited by the hope of victory and spoil; and if a single

1 Vivarium was an angle in Ibe new wall, inclosed for wild beasts. (Procopins,

Goth, lib.l. c. 23.) The spot is still visible in Nardini, (lib. 4. c. 2. p.
159, 160.)

ind Nolli's great plan of Rome.

N 1

