CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

slightly baked by the same fire which warmed the baths

of Constantinople: and when the sacks were opened, a

soft and mouldy paste was distributed to the army. Such

unwholesome food, assisted by the heat of the climate

and season, vsoon produced an epidemical disease, which

swept away five hundred soldiers. Their health was re- .

stored by the diligence of Belisarius, who provided fresh

bread at Methone, and boldly expressed his just and hu­

mane indignation: the emperor heard his complaint; the

general was praised; but the minister was not punished.

From the port of Methone, the pilots steered along the

western coast of Peloponnesus, as far as the isle of Za-

cynthus or Zant, before they undertook the voyage (in

their eyes a most arduous voyage) of one hundred leagues

over the Ionian sea. As the fleet was surprised by a

calm, sixteen days were consumed in the slow navigation;

and even the general would have suffered the intolerable

hardship of thirst, if the ingenuity of Antonina had not

preserved the water in glass bottles, which she buried

deep in the sand in a part of the ship impervious to the

rays of the sun. At length the harbour ofCaucana,"

on the southern side of Sicily, afforded a secure and hos­

pitable shelter. The Gothic officers, who governed the

island in the name of the daughter and grandson of The-

odoric, obeyed their imprudent orders, to receive the

troops of Justinian like friends and allies; provisions were

liberally supplied, the cavalry was remounted,0 and Pro-

copius soon returned from Syracuse with correct informa­

tion, of the state and designs of the Vandals. His intel­

ligence determined Belisarius to hasten his operations,

and his wise impatience was seconded by the winds. The

fleet lost sight of Sicily, passed before the isle of Malta,

discovered the capes of Africa, ran along the coast with1

"Caucana, near Camarlna, is rtleast fifty miles (three hundred and fifty or
four'

hundred stadia) from Syracuse. (C. iver, Sicilia Antiqua, p. 191.) t

° Procopius, Gothic, lib. 1. o. 3\ Tibi tollil hinnitum apta quadrigis equa,
in,

the Sicilian pastures of Grosphuus. (titirat. Carm. 2. 16.) Acragas magna-

nimiim quondam generator cquorum. (Virg. ./Bneid, .3.701.) There's horses,
nhos».

victories are immortalized by Pindar, were bred in this couatry.

