DECLINE AND FALL [.CHAP. XXXIX

Ipud and specious reproach of disloyalty, of ingratitude,

and of insatiate avarice, which could be only excused by

the hard necessity of his situation. He reigned, not as;

the monarch, but as the minister, of a ferocious people,

whose spirit was unbroken by slavery, and impatient of

real or imaginary insults. Their poverty was incurable;

since the most liberal donatives were soon dissipated in

wasteful luxury, as the most fertile estates became barren

in their hands; they despised, but they envied, the la­

borious provincials; and when their subsistence had

failed, the Ostrogoths embraced the familiar resources of

war and rapine. It had been the wish of Theodoric (such

at least was his dejaration) to lead a peaceable, obscure,

obedient life, on the confines of Scythia, till the Byzan­

tine court, by splendid and fallacious promises, seduced

him to attack a confederate tribe of Goths, who had been

engaged in the party of Basilisqus. He marched from

his station in Maesia, on the solemn assurance that be­

fore he reached Adrianople, he should meet a plentiful

convoy of provisions, and a reinforcement of eight thou­

sand horse, and thirty thousand foot, while the legions

of Asia were encamped at Heraclea to second his opera­

tions. These measures were disappointed by mutual

jealousy. As he advanced into Thrace, the son of Theo-

demir found an inhospitable solitude, and his Gothic

followers, with a heavy train of horses, of mules, and

of waggons, were betrayed by their guides among the

rocks and precipices of mount Sondis, where he was

assaulted by the arms and invectives of Theodoric the

son of Triarius. From a neighbouring height, his art­

ful rival harangued the camp of the Walamirs, and brand­

ed their leader with the opprobrious names of child, of

madman, of perjured traitor, the enemy of his blood and

nation. "Are you ignorant (exclaimed the son. of

Triarius) that it is the constant policy of the Romans to

as it should seem, than the Wulamirs: but the son of Theodemii is charged with
th«

ruin of many Roman cities. (Malchns Excerpt. Leg. p. 95.)

