114 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

CHAP. XLI.

Conquest of Justinian in the west.—Character and first campaigns of
Belisarius.—He

invades and subdues the Vandal kingdom of Africa.— His triumph The Gothic

war.—He recovers Sicily, Naples, and Rome.—Siege of Rome by the Goths.—

Their retreat and losses.—Surrender of Ravenna.—Glory of Belisarius.—His do­

mestic shame and misfortunes.

Justinian When Justinian ascended the throne, about fifty years

fends"t0 after the fall of the western empire, the kingdoms of the

*frpa,533 Goths and Vandals had obtained a solid, and, as it might  
seem, a legal establishment both in Europe and Africa.

The titles which Roman victory had inscribed, were

erased with equal justice by the sword of the barbarians;

and their successful rapine derived a more venerable sanc­

tion from time, from treaties, and from the oaths of fide­

lity, already repeated by a second or third generation of

obedient subjects. Experience and Christianity had re­

futed the superstitious hope, that Rome was founded by

the gods to reign for ever over the nations of the earth.

But the proud claim of perpetual and indefeasible domi­

nion, which her soldiers could no longer maintain, was

firmly asserted by her statesmen and lawyers, whose opi­

nions have been sometimes revived and propagated in

the modern schools of jurisprudence. After Rome her­

self had been stripped of the imperial purple, the princes

of Constantinople assumed the sole and sacred sceptre of

the monarchy; demanded, as their rightful inheritance,

the provinces which had been subdued by the consuls,

or possessed by the Caesars; and feebly aspired to deli­

ver their faithful subjects of the west from the usurpa­

tion of heretics and barbarians. The execution of this

splendid design was in some degree reserved for Justi­

nian. During the five first years of his reign, he reluc­

tantly waged a costly and unprofitable war against the

Persians; till his pride submitted to his ambition, and

he purchased, at the price of 440,000/. sterling, the

benefit of a precarious truce, which, in the language of

both nations, was dignified with the appellation of the

