DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

respect of Belisarius for the successor of St. Peter, and

his rigid discipline secured, in the midst of war, the bless­

ings of tranquillity and justice. They applauded the

rapid success of his arms, which overran the adjacent

country, as far as Narni, Perusia, and Spoleto: but they

trembled, the senate, the clergy, and the unwarlike peo­

ple, as soon as they understood that he had resolved,

and would speedily be reduced, to sustain a siege against

the powers of the Gothic monarchy. The designs of

Vitiges were executed during the winter-season, with

diligence and effect. From their rustic habitations, from

their distant garrisons, the Goths assembled at Ravenna

for the defence of their country; and such were their

numbers, that after an army had been detached for the

relief of Dalmatia, one hundred and fifty thousand fight­

ing men marched under the royal standard. According

to the degrees of rank or merit, the Gothic king distri­

buted arms and horses, rich gifts, and liberal promises;

he moved along the Flaminian way, declined the useless

sieges of Perusia and Spoleto, respected the impregnable

rock of Narni, and arrived within two miles of Rome, at

the foot of the Milvian bridge. The narrow passage

was fortified with a tower, and Belisarius had computed

the value of the twenty days, which must be lost in the

construction of another bridge. But the consternation

of the soldiers of the tower, who either fled or deserted,

disappointed his hopes, and betrayed his person into the

most imminent danger. At the head of one thousand

horse, the Roman general sallied from the Flaminian

g3te to mark the ground of an advantageous position,

and to survey the camp of the barbarians; but while he

still believed them on the other side of the Tiber, he

was suddenly encompassed and assaulted by their innu­

merable squadrons. The fate of Italy depended on his

life ; and the deserters pointed to the conspicuous horse,

a bay,f with a white face, which he rode on that memo-

'An horse of a hay or red colour was styled <j>aXio; by the Greeks, halam by.
ths

