224 DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. XLIIi

by a thousand ears, the secret or public agents of the

throne; and the provinces, from the Indian to the Ara­

bian confines, were enlightened by the frequent visits of

a sovereign, who affected to emulate his celestial brother

in his rapid and salutary career. Education and agri­

culture he viewed as the two objects most deserving of

his care. In every city of Persia, orphans and the chil­

dren of the poor were maintained and instructed at the

public expense; the daughters were given in marriage to

the richest citizens of their own rank ; and the sons, ac­

cording to their different talents, were employed in me­

chanic trades, or promoted to more honourable service.

The deserted villages were relieved by his bounty; to the

peasants and farmers, who were found incapable of culti­

vating their lands, he distributed cattle, seed, and the in­

struments of husbandry; and the rare and inestimable

treasure of fresh water was parsimoniously managed and

skilfully dispersed over the arid territory of Persia.* The

prosperity of that kingdom was the effect and the evi­

dence of his virtues: his vices are those of oriental des­

potism ( but in the long competition between Chosroes

and Justinian, the advantage both of merit and fortune is

almost always on the side of the barbarian/ . ':

His love of To the praise of justice, Nushirvan united the reputa-

lenrnmg. ^ knowledge; and the seven Greek philosophers,

who visited this court, were invited and deceived by the

strange assurance, that a disciple of Plato was seated on

the Persian throne. Did they expect that a prince,

strenuously exercised in the toils of war and government,

should agitate, with dexterity like their own, the ab-

* In Persia, the prince of the waters is an officer of state. The number of wells  
and subterraneous channels is much diminished, and with it the fertility of
the soil;

four hundred wells have been recently lost near Tauris, and fortyrtwo thousand
were

once reckoned in the province of Kborasan. (Chardin. tom. 3. p. 99,100.
Tavernier,

tom. 1. p. 466.)

J The character and goverument of Nushirvan is represented sometimes in the

words of d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient. p. 680, &e. from Khondemir) Eutychius

(Annal, tom. 2. p, 179, 180—very rich), Abulpharagins (Dynast. 7. p. 94, 95,^-

very poor), Tarikh Schikard, (p. 144—150.) Texeira, (in Stevens, lib. 1, c.
35.) As*

seman, (Bibliot. Orient, tom. 3. p. 404—410.) and the abbe Fourmont, (Hist. de

l'Acad. des Inscriptions, tom. 7. p. 325—334.) who has translated a spurious
or ge?

nuiue testament of Nushirvan.

