CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 115

endless peace. The safety of the east enabled the em­

peror to employ his forces against the Vandals; and

the internal state of Africa afforded an honourable

motive, and promised a powerful support, to the Roman

arms."

According to the testament of the founder, the Afri- state onh«

can kingdom had lineally descended to Hilderic, the Hilderic'.

eldest of the Vandal princes. A mild disposition in- ^^0biS

clined the son of a tyrant, the grandson of a conqueror,

to prefer the counsels of clemency and peace; and his

accession was marked by the salutary edict, which re­

stored two hundred bishops to their churches, and al­

lowed free profession of the Athanasian creed .b But

the Catholics accepted, with cold and transient gratitude,

a favour so inadequate to their pretensions, and the vir­

tues of Hilderic offended the prejudices of his country­

men. The Arian clergy presumed to insinuate that he

had renounced the faith, and the soldiers more loudly

complained that he had degenerated from the courage

of his ancestors. His ambassadors were suspected of a

secret and disgraceful negotiation in the Byzantine

court: and his general, the Achilles/ as he was named,

of the Vandals, lost a battle against the naked and dis­

orderly Moors. The public discontent was exasperated Geliaer.

by Gelimer, whose age, descent, and military fame, gave M

him an apparent title to the succession: he assumed,

with the consent of the nation, the reins of govern-

* The complete series of the Vandal war is related by Procopios in regular and  
elegant narrative ; (lib. 1. c. 9—25. lib. J. o. 1—13.) and happy would be my
lot,

could I always tread in the footsteps of such a guide. From the entire and
diligent

perusal of the Greek text, 1 have a right to pronounce, that the Latin and
French ver­

sions of Grotius and Cousin may not be implicitly trusted: yet the president
Cousin

has been often praised, and Hugo Grotius was the first scholar of a learned
age.

• See Ruinart, Hist. Persecut. Vandal, c. 12. p. 589. His best evidence is
drawn

from the Life of St. Fulgentius, composed by one of his disciples, transcribed
in a

great measure in the annals of Baronius, and printed in several great
collections. Ca­

talog. Bibliot. Bunavisrnae, tom. 1. vol.2, p. 1258.)

c For what quality of the mind or body? For speed, or beauty, or valour?—In

what language did the Vandals read Homer?—Did be speak German?—The Latins

had four versions: (Fabric. tom. 1. lib. 2. c. 3. p. 297.) yet in spite of the
praises of

Seneca, (Consol. c. 26.) they appear to have been more successful in
imitating, than

in translating, the Greek poets. But the name of Achilles might be famous and
pO-'

pular, even among the il I iterate harharian;.

