CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tion of Anastasi, the secret, though lawful, wife of the

emperor Tiberius. Whatever could alleviate the disap­

pointment of Sophia, imperial honours, a stately palace,

a numerous household, was liberally bestowed by the

piety of her adopted son; on solemn occasions he at­

tended and consulted the widow of his benefactor: but

her ambition disdained the vain semblance of royalty, and

the respectful appellation of mother served to exasperate,

rather than appease, the rage of an injured woman.

While she accepted, and repaid with a courtly smile, the

fair expressions of regard and confidence, a secret alli­

ance was concluded between the dowager empress and

her ancient enemies; and Justinian, the son of Germa-

nus, was employed as the instrument of her revenge.

The pride of the reigning house supported, with reluct­

ance, the dominion of a stranger: the youth was deserv­

edly popular; his name, after the death of Justin, had

been mentioned by a tumultuous faction; and his own

submissive offer of his head, with a treasure of sixty

thousand pounds, might be interpreted as an evidence of

guilt, or at least of fear. Justinian received a free par­

don, and the command of the eastern army. The Persian

monarch fled before his arms; and the acclamations

which accompanied his triumph declared him worthy of

the purple. His artful patroness had chosen the month of

the vintage, while the emperor, in a rural solitude, was

permitted to enjoy the pleasures of a subject. On the first

intelligence of her designs he returned to Constantino­

ple, and the conspiracy was suppressed by his presence

and firmness. From the pomp and honours which she

had abused, Sophia was reduced to a modest allowance:

Tiberius dismissed her train, intercepted her correspon­

dence, and committed to a faithful guard the custody of

her person. But the services of Justinian were not con­

sidered by that excellent prince as an aggravation of his

offences; after a mild reproof, his treason and ingratitude

\yere forgiven; and it was commonly believed, that the

