140 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI.

of Numidia. He was immediately besieged by Pharas,

an officer whose truth and sobriety were the more ap­

plauded, as such qualities could seldom be found among

the Heruli, the most corrupt of the barbarian tribes.

To his vigilance Belisarius had intrusted this important

charge; and, after a bold attempt to scale the mountain,

in which he lost a hundred and ten soldiers, Pharas ex­

pected, during a winter siege, the operation of distress

and famine on the mind of the Vandal king. From the

softest habits of pleasure, from the unbounded command

of industry and wealth, he was reduced to share the po­

verty of the Moors/ supportable only to themselves by

their ignorance of a happier condition. In their rude

i novels, of mud and hurdles, which confined the smoke

and excluded the light, they promiscuously slept on the

ground, perhaps on a sheep-skin, with their wives, their

children, and their cattle. Sordid and scanty were their

garments; the use of bread and wine was unknown; and

their oaten or barley cakes, imperfectly baked in the

ashes, were devoured almost in a crude state by the hun­

gry savages. The health of Gelimer must have sunk

under these strange and unwonted hardships, from what­

soever cause they had been endured; but his actual

misery was embittered by the recollection of past great­

ness, the daily insolence of his protectors, and the just

apprehension, that the light and venal Moors might be

tempted to betray the rights of hospitality. The know­

ledge of his situation dictated the humane and friendly

epistle of Pharas. "Like yourself (said the chief of the

Heruli) I am an illiterate barbarian, but I speak the lan­

guage of plain sense, and a honest heart. Why will you

persist in hopeless obstinacy? Why will you ruin your­

self, your family, and nation? The love of freedom and

abhorrence of slavery? Alas! my dearest Gelimer, are

'Shaw (Travels, p. 220.) most accurately represents the manners of the Bedo-

weensand Kabyles, the last of whom, by their language, are the remnant of the
Moors:

yet how changed—how civilized are these modern savages !—provisions are plenty

among thcni, and bread is common, w -

