DECLINfc AND FALL [ciiAt»: XLI*!1.'

uncle had imprudently bestowed the provincial govern­

ments of Tripoli and Pentapolis. A Moorish tribe en­

camped under the walls of Leptis, to renew their alii*

ance, and receive from the governor the customary gifts;

Fourscore of their deputies were introduced as friends

into the city; but, on the dark suspicion of a conspi­

racy, they were massacred at the table of Sergius; and

the clamour of arms and revenge was re-echoed through

the valleys of mount Atlas, from both the Syrtes to the

Atlantic ocean. A personal injury, the unjust execu­

tion, or murder of his brother, rendered Antalus the

enemy of the Romans. The defeat of the Vandals had

formerly signalized his valour; the rudiments of justice

and prudence were still more conspicuous in a Moor;

and while he laid Adrumetum in ashes, he calmly admo­

nished the emperor that the peace of Africa might be

secured by the recall of Solomon and his unworthy ne­

phews. The exarch led forth his troops from Carthage:

but at the distance of six days' journey, in the neigh­

bourhood of Tebeste,d he was astonished by the superior

numbers and fierce aspect of the barbarians. He pro­

posed a treaty; solicited a reconciliation; and offered

to bind himself by the most solemn oaths. "By what

oaths can: he bind himself? (interrupted the indignant

Moors.) Will he swear by the gospels, the divine books

of the Christians? It was on those books that the faith

of his nephew Sergius was pledged to eighty of our inno­

cent and unfortunate brethren. Before we trust them a

second time, let us try their efficacy in the chastisement

of perjury, and the vindication of their own honou»"

Their honour was vindicated in the field of Tebeste, by

the death of Solomon, and the total loss of his army.

* Now Tibesh, in the kingdom of Algiers. It is watered by a river, the Sujeras*,  
which falls into the Mejerda. (Bagradas.) Tibesh is still remarkable for its
walls of

large stones (like the Coliseum of Rome), a fountain and a grove of walnut-
trees : the

country is fruitful, and the neighbouring Bereberes are warlike. It appears
from an

inscription, that, under the reign of Adrian, the road from Carthage to
Tebeste was

constructed by the third legion. (Maraiol. Description de l'Afriquc, tota. 2.
p. Hit;

443. Shaw's Travels, p. 64—66.) • ■ .-■■'■■>

