10 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX-

T'featsof Odoacer, a rival not unworthy of his arms, had al-

odoacer. ready occupied the advantageous and well-known post of

Ang'ta, ' the river Sontius near the ruins of Aquileia, at the head

a'd' 490 of a Powerful host, whose independent kings' or leaders

August, disdained the duties of subordination and the prudence of

delays. No sooner had Theodoric granted a short re­

pose and refreshment to his wearied cavalry, than he

boldly attacked the fortifications of the enemy; the Os­

trogoths shewed more ardour to acquire, than the mer­

cenaries to defend, the lands of Italy; and the reward of

the first victory was the possession of the Venetian pro­

vince as far as the walls of Verona. In the neighbour­

hood of that city, on the steep banks of the rapid Adige,

he was opposed by a new army, reinforced in its num­

bers, and not impaired in its courage; the contest was

more obstinate, but the event was still more decisive;

Odoacer fled to Ravenna, Theodoric advanced to Milan,

and the vanquished troops saluted their conqueror with

loud acclamations of respect and fidelity. But their

want either of constancy or of faith, soon exposed him

to the most imminent danger; his vanguard, with se­

veral Gothic counts, which had been rashly intrusted to

a deserter, was betrayed and destroyed near Faenza by

his double treachery; Odoacer again appeared master of

the field, and the invader, strongly intrenched in his

camp of Pavia, was reduced to solicit the aid of a kindred

nation, the Visigoths of Gaul. In the course of the

history, the most voracious appetite for war will be abun­

dantly satiated; nor can I much lament that our dark

and imperfect materials do not afford a more ample nar­

rative of the distress of Italy, and of the fierce conflict,

which was finally decided by the abilities, experience,

and valour, of the Gothic king. Immediately before the

battle of Verona, he visited the tent of his mother1 and

s Tot reges, &c. (Ennodius, p. 1602.) We must recollect how much the royal

title was multiplied and degraded, and that the mercenaries of Italy were the
frag­

ments of many tribes and nations.

'See Ennodius, p. 1603, 1604. Since the orator, in the king's presence, could

mention and praise his mother, we may conclude that the magnanimity of
Theodoric

was not burt by the vulgar reproaches of concuhine and hastard.

