222 DECLINE AND FALI, [CHAP. XLlf

eight years;1 and the Justick of Nushirvan is cele­

brated as the theme of immortal praise by the nations of

the east.

Reiga of But the justice of kings is understood by themselves,

orUchos-an' and even by their subjects, with an ample indulgence for

A.e a 531 tne gratification of passion and interest. The virtue of

5?9- Chosroes was that of a conqueror, who, in the measures

of peace and war, is excited by ambition and restrained by

prudence; who confounds the greatness with the hap­

piness of a nation, and calmly devotes the lives of thou­

sands to the fame, or even the amusement, of a single

man. In his domestic administration, the just Nushir-

van would merit, in our feelings, the appellation of a ty­

rant. His two elder brothers had been deprived of their

fair expectations of the diadem: their future life, be­

tween the supreme rank and the condition of subjects,

was anxious to themselves and formidable to their mas­

ter; fear as well as revenge might tempt them to rebel;

the slightest evidence of a conspiracy satisfied the author

of their wrongs; and the repose of Chosroes was secured

by the death of these unhappy princes, with their fami­

lies and adherents. One guiltless youth was saved and

dismissed by the compassion of a veteran general; and

this act of humanity, which was revealed by his son,

overbalanced the merit of reducing twelve nations to

the obedience of Persia. The zeal and prudence of

Mebodes had fixed the diadem on the head of Chosroes

himself; but he delayed to attend the royal summons,

till he had performed the duties of a military review: he

was instantly commanded to repair to the iron tripod,

which stood before the gate of the palace," where it was

• From Procopius and Agathias, Pagi (tom. ?. p. 543. 626.) has proved that
Chos­

roes Nushirvan ascended the throne in the fifth year of Justinian. (A. D. 531.
April

f. AiD. 532. April 1.) But the true chronology, which harmonizes with the
Greeks

and Orientals, is ascertained by John Malala. (tom. 2. 211.) Cahades, or
Kohad,

after a reign of forty-three years and two months, sickened the 8th, and died
the

13th of September, A, D. 531, aged eighty-two years. According to the annals
of

Eutychius, Nushirvan reigned forty-seven years and six moDths; and his death
must

pousequently be placed in March, A. D. 579.

• Procopius, Persic. lib, 1. c, 23. Brissott de Regn. Pers. p. 491. The gate
of

