CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. • dOl

strong assurance, that, after the defeat of the Lombards,

the foreign invaders would easily be repelled, he rushed

forward to encounter the implacable enemy of his name

and family. But the courage of the Gepidas could se­

cure them no more than an honourable death. The

bravest of the nation fell in the field of battle; the king

of the Lombards contemplated with delight the head of

Cunimund; and his skull was fashioned into a cup, to

satiate the hatred of the conqueror, or, perhaps, to com­

ply with the savage custom of his country.k After this

victory, no farther obstacle could impede the progress of

the confederates, and they faithfully executed the terms

of their agreement.' The fair countries of Walachia,

Moldavia, Transylvania, and the parts of Hungary be­

yond the Danube, were occupied, without resistance, by

a new colony of Scvthians: and the Dacian empire of

the chagans subsisted with splendour above two hundred

and thirty years. The nation of the Gepidse was dis­

solved; but, in the distribution of the captives, the slaves

of the Avars were less fortunate than the companions of

the Lombards, whose generosity adopted a valiant foe,

and whose freedom was incompatible with cool and deli­

berate tyranny. One moiety of the spoil introduced in­

to the camp of Alboin more wealth than a barbarian

could readily compute. The fair Rosamond was per­

suaded, or compelled, to acknowledge the rights of her

victorious lover; and the daughter of Cunimund appeared

to forgive those crimes which might be imputed to her

own irresistible charms.

The destruction of a mighty kingdom established the A'b"!^ "■-

fame of Alboin. In the days of Charlemagne, the Ba- the c<m-

varians, the Saxons, and the other tribes of the Teuto- u^y,"

nic language, still repeated the songs which described the A< D-667-

k It appears from Strabo, Pliny, and Ammianas Marcellinus, that the same prac­

tice was common among the Scythian tribes, (Muratori, Scriptores Rer. Italic,
lorn.

1. p. 424.) The scalps of North America are likewise trophies of valour. The

skull of Cunimund was preserved above two hundred years among the Lombards;

and Paul himself was one of the guests to whom duke Ratchis exhibited this cup
on

a high festival, (lib. 2. c. 28.)

1 Paul, lib. 1. c. 57. Menander, in Exctrpt. Lcgat. p. 110, 111.

