324 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLiy.

ly absurd. The secret or probable wish of the dead was

suffered to prevail over the order of succession and the

forms of testaments; and the claimant, who was ex­

cluded from the character of heir, accepted with equal

pleasure from an indulgent praetor the possession of the

goods of his late kinsman or benefactor. In the redress

of private wrongs, compensations and fines were substi­

tuted to the obsolete rigour of the twelve tables; time

and space were annihilated by fanciful suppositions; and

the plea of youth, or fraud, or violence, annulled the ob­

ligation, or excused the performance, of an inconvenient

contract. A jurisdiction thus vague and arbitrary was

exposed to the most dangerous abuse; the substance,

as well as the form, of justice, were often sacrificed

to the prejudices of virtue, the bias of laudable affec­

tion, and the grosser seductions of interest or resent-,

ment. But the errors or vices of each praetor expired

with his annual office; such maxims alone as had been

approved by reason and practice were copied by succeed­

ing judges; the rule of proceeding was defined by the

solution of new cases; and the temptations of injustice

were removed by the Cornelian law, which compelled

the praetor of the year to adhere to the letter and spirit

of his first proclamation,1 It was reserved for the curi­

osity and learning of Hadrian, to accomplish the design

which had been conceived by the genius of Ceesar; and

the praetorship of Salvius Julian, an eminent lawyer,

uw! edict0" w^s immortalized by the composition of the perpetual

edict. This well-digested code was ratified by the em­

peror and the senate; the long divorce of law and equity

was at length reconciled; and, instead of the twelve

tables, the perpetual edict was fixed as the invariable

standard of civil jurisprudence.™

1 Dion Cassius (tom. 1. lib. 36. p. 100.) fixes perpetual edicts in the year
of Rome

686. Their institution, however, is ascribed to the year 585 in the Acta
Diurna,

which have been published from the papers of Ludnvicus Vivea. Their
authenticity

'is supported or allowed by Pighius, (Annal. Roman. tom. 2. p. 377, 378.)
Gravida,

(ad Sueton. p. 778.) Dodwell, (PraJection. Camden, p. 665.) and Heineccius;
hat a

single word, Scutum Cimbricum, detects the forgery. (Moyle's Works ,vol. I. p.
303.)

m The history of edicts is composed, and the text of the perpetual edict is
restored

