26 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX.

of wine was sometimes sold in Italy for less than three

farthings, and a quarter of wheat at about five shillings

and sixpence/ A country possessed of so many valuable

objects of exchange, soon attracted the merchants of the

world, whose beneficial traffic was encouraged and pro­

tected by the liberal spirit of Theodoric. The free in­

tercourse of the provinces by land and water was re­

stored and extended; the city-gates were never shut

either by day or by night; and the common saying, that

a purse of gold might be safely left in the fields, was ex­

pressive of the conscious security of the inhabitants.

uAriu" ^ difference of religion is always pernicious and often

fatal to the harmony of the prince and people; the Go­

thic conqueror had been educated in the profession of

Arianism, and Italy was devoutly attached to the Ni-

cene faith. But the persuasion of Theodoric was not

infected by zeal, and he piously adhered to the heresy

of his fathers, without condescending to balance the

subtle arguments of theological metaphysics. Satisfied

with the private toleration of his Arian sectaries, he justly

conceived himself to be the guardian of the public wor­

ship; and his external reverence for a superstition which

he despised, may have nourished in his mind the salutary

Histoiera- indifference of a statesman or philosopher. The Ca-

Catholics. tholics of his dominions acknowledged, perhaps with re­

luctance, the peace of the church ; their clergy, accord­

ing to the degrees of rank or merit, were honourably

entertained in the palace of Theodoric; he esteemed the

living sanctity of Caesarius8 and Epiphanius,h the ortho­

dox bishops of Aries and Pavia; and presented a decent

offering on the tomb of St. Peter, without any scrupul-

'LX inodli trilici in solidum ipsius tempore fuerunt, et vioum SO amphorM in

solidnm. (Fragment. Vales.) Corn was distributed from the granaries at fifteen
or

twenty-fire roodii for a piece of gold, and the price was still moderate.

K See the life of St. Cssarius in Baronius. (A. D. 508. no. 12—14.) Tba

king presented him with three thousand gold solidi, and a discus of silver of
the weight

of sixty pounds.

k Ennodius in vit. St Epiphanii, in Sirmond Op. torn. 1. p. 1672—1690. Theo

doric bestowed some important favours on this bishop, whom he used as a
counsellor

iu peace and war.

