DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

which precede the tumult of a battle. His skilful move­

ments intercepted the subsistence of the barbarian, de­

prived him of the advantage of the bridge and river, and

in the choice of the ground and moment of action, re­

duced him to comply with the inclination of his enemy.

On the morning of the important day, when the ranks

were already formed, a servant, for some trivial fault,

was killed by his master, one of the leaders of the He-

ruli. The justice or passion of Narses was awakened:

he summoned the offender to his presence, and, without

listening to his excuses, gave the signal to the minister

of death. If the cruel master had not infringed the laws

of his nation, this arbitrary execution was not less unjust,

than it appears to have been imprudent. The Heruli

felt the indignity; they halted: but the Roman general,

without soothing their rage, or expecting their resolution,

called aloud, as the trumpets sounded, that unless they

- hastened to occupy their place, they would lose the ho­  
nour of the victory. His troops were disposed" in a long

front, the cavalry on the wings; in the centre, the heavy-

armed foot; the archers and slingers in the rear. The

Germans advanced in a sharp-pointed column, of the

form of a triangle or solid wedge. They pierced the

feeble centre of Narses, who received them with a smile

into the fatal snare, and directed his wings of cavalry in­

sensibly to wheel on their flanks and encompass the rear.

The hosts of the Franks and Alemanni consisted of in­

fantry: a sword and buckler hung by their side, and they

used, as their weapons of offence, a weighty hatchet,

and hooked javelin, which were only formidable in close

combat, or at a short distance. The flower of the Ro­

man archers, on horseback, and in complete armour,

skirmished without peril round this immoveable phalanx;

supplied by active speed the deficiency of number; and

1 • Pere Daniel (Hist. de la Milice Franchise, tom. 1. p. 17—21.) has
exhihited a

fanciful representation of Ibis hattle, somewhat in the manner of the
chevalier Fe-

lard, the once famous editor of Polyhios, who fashioned to his own hahits and
opinions

all the military operations of antiquity.

