132 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLTr.

ed to the flames. The cathedral of Antioch was in«-

deed preserved by the avarice, not the pity, of the con­

queror: a more honourable exemption was granted to

the church of St. Julian, and the quarter of the town

where the ambassadors resided; some distant streets

were saved by the shifting of the wind, and the walls still

subsisted to protect, and soon to betray, their new in­

habitants. Fanaticism had defaced the ornaments of

Daphne, but Chosroes breathed a purer air amidst her

groves and fountains; and some idolaters in his train

might sacrifice with impunity to the nymphs of that ele­

gant retreat. Eighteen miles below Antioch, the river

Orontes falls into the Mediterranean. The haughty

Persian visited the term of his conquests: and, after bath­

ing alone in the sea, he offered a solemn sacrifice of

thanksgiving to the sun, or rather to the Creator of the

sun, whom the Magi adored. If this act of superstition

offended the prejudices of the Syrians, they were pleas­

ed by the courteous and even eager attention with which

he assisted at the games of the circus; and as Chos­

roes had heard that the blue faction was espoused by the

emperor, his peremptory command secured the victory

of the green charioteer. From the discipline of his camp

the people derived more solid consolation; and they in­

terceded in vain for the life of a soldier who had too

faithfully copied the rapine of the just Nushirvan. At

length, fatigued, though unsatiated, with the spoil of Sy­

ria, he slowly moved to the Euphrates, formed a tempo­

rary bridge in the neighbourhood of Barbalissus, and de­

fined the space of three days for the entire passage of

his numerous host. After his return, he founded at the

distance of one day's journey from the palace of Ctesir

phon, a new city, which perpetuated the joint names of

Chosroes and of Antioch. The Syrian captives recog­

nised the form and situation of their native abodes.:

baths and a stately circus were constructed for their use;

and a colony of musicians and charioteers revived in

