CHAP. XLI.] OF THE BOMAN EMPIRE. . 155

one of her cousins, the regal title, and of reserving in

her own hands the substance of supreme power. He

received the proposal with profound respect and affected

gratitude; and the eloquent Cassiodorius announced to

the senate and the emperor, that Amalasontha and The*

odatus had ascended the throne of Italy. His birth (for

his mother was the sister of Theodoric) might be con­

sidered as an imperfect title; and the choice of Amalas­

ontha was more strongly directed by her contempt of his

avarice and pusillanimity, which had deprived him of the

love of the Italians, and the esteem of the barbarians.

But Theodatus was exasperated by the contempt which

he deserved; her justice had repressed and reproached

the oppression which he exercised against his Tuscan

neighbours; and the principal Goths, united by com­

mon guilt and resentment, conspired to instigate his

slow and timid disposition. The letters of congratulation Her exile

were scarcely dispatched before the queen of Italy was SId^ms'

imprisoned in a small island of the lake of Bolsena,'April 30.

where, after a short confinement, she was strangled in

the bath, by the order, or with the connivance, of the

new king, who instructed his turbulent subjects to shed

the blood of their sovereigns.

Justinian beheld with joy the dissensions of the Goths;■ BelisariuK

and the mediation of an ally concealed and promoted and" Sub-

the ambitious views of the conqueror. His ambassadors, d""Sicilr-

in their public audience, demanded the fortress of Lily-

basum, ten barbarian fugitives, and a just compensation

for the pillage of a small town on the Illyrian borders;

but they secretly negotiated with Theodatus, to betray

the province of Tuscany, and tempted Amalasontha to

extricate herself from danger and perplexity, by a free

surrender of the kingdom of Italy. A false and servile

'The Like, from the neighbouring towns of Etruria, was styled either
Vulsiniensis

(now of Bolsena) or Tarquiniensis. It is surrounded with white rocks, and
stored

with fish and wild fowl. The younger Pliny (Epist. 2. 96.) celebrates two
woody

islands that floated on its waters: if a fablet how credulous the ancients!—if
a fact,

how careless the moderns! Yet since Pliny, the island may have been fixed by
new

and gradual successions. '. '• ■ .

M 2

