CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 245

nature or education was wounded by the impious prac­

tice of exposing the dead bodies of their parents, on the

summit of a lofty tower, to the crows and vultures of the

air.q Conscious of the increasing hatred, which retarded

the execution of his great designs, the just Nushirvan

had secretly given orders to assassinate the king of the

Lazi, to transplant the people into some distant land,

and to fix a faithful and warlike colony on the banks of

the Phasis. The watchful jealousy of the Colchians

foresaw and averted the approaching ruin. Their re­

pentance was accepted at Constantinople by the pru­

dence, rather than the clemency, of Justinian; and he

commanded Dagisteus, with seven thousand Romans,

and one thousand of the Zani, to expel the Persians from

the coast of the Euxine.

The siege of Petra, which the Roman general, with i»'eet^of

the aid of the Lazi, immediately undertook, is one of A 5^1549

the most remarkable actions of the age. The city was

seated on a craggy rock, which hung over the sea, and

communicated by a steep and narrow path with the land.

Since the approach was difficult, the attack might be

deemed impossible; the Persian conqueror had strength­

ened the fortifications of Justinian; and the places least

inaccessible were covered by additional bulwarks. In

this important fortress, the vigilance of Chosroes had de­

posited a magazine of offensive and defensive arms, suf­

ficient for five times the number, not only of the garri­

son, but of the besiegers themselves. The stock of flour

and salt provisions was adequate to the consumption of

five years; the want of wine was supplied by vinegar,

and of grain, from whence a strong liquor was extracted;

and a triple aqueduct eluded the diligence, and even the

suspicions, of the enemy. But the firmest defence of

1 See Herodotus, (lib. 1. o. 140. p. 69.) who speaks with diffidence; Larcher;

(tom. 1. p. 399—401. Notes sur Herodote) Procopius, (Persic. lib. 1. c. 11.)
and

Agathias. (lib. 2. p. 61, 62.) This practice, agreeable to the Zendauesta,
(Hyde, de

Relig. Pers. c. 34. p. 414—421.) demonstrates that the burial of the Persian
kings,

(Xenophon. Cyropaed. lib. 8. p. 658.) ti yop rourai ^axapian-sjov tsu rp yj
jju^Bmai,

is a Greek fiction, and that their tombs could be no more thau-cenotaphs.

