332 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

Third ander and Justinian, the oracles of jurisprudence were

A?u. C. almost mute. The measure of curiosity had been filled:

988—1230 ^e tjlrone was OCCUpied by tyrants and barbarians; the

active spirits were diverted by religious disputes, and the

professors of Rome, Constantinople, and Berytus, were

humbly content to repeat the lessons of their more en­

lightened predecessors. From the slow advances and

rapid decay of these legal studies, it may be inferred, that

they require a state of peace and refinement. From the

multitude of voluminous civilians who fill the interme­

diate space, it is evident, that such studies may be pur­

sued, and such works may be performed, with a common

share of judgment, experience, and industry. The ge­

nius of Cicero and Virgil was more sensibly felt, as each

revolving age had been found incapable of producing a

similar or a second: but the most eminent teachers of

the law were assured of leaving disciples equal or supe­

rior to themselves in merit and reputation.

iosopbyhl" The jurisprudence which had been grossly adapted to

the wants of the first Romans, was polished and improved

in the seventh century of the city, by the alliance of

Grecian philosophy. The Scaevolas had been taught by

use and experience; but Servius Sulpicius was the first

civilian who established his art on a certain and general

theory.11 For the discernment of truth and falsehood, he

applied, as an infallible rule, the logic of Aristotle and

the stoics, reduced particular cases to general principles,

and diffused over the shapeless mass, the light of order

and eloquence. Cicero, his contemporary and friend,

declined the reputation of a professed lawyer; but the

jurisprudence of his country was adorned by his incom­

parable genius, which converts into gold every object

that it touches. After the example of Plato, he com­

posed a republic; and, for the use of his republic, a trea-

h Crassns, or rather Cicero himself, proposes (de Oratore, 1. 41, 42.) an idea
of

the art or science of jnrisprndence, which the eloquent, bnt illiterate,
Anlonius (1.

58.) effects to deride. It was partly executed by Servius Sntpicins, (in
Brnto, c. 41.)

whose praises are elegantly varied in the classic Latinity of the Roman
Grarina.

(p. 60.)

