DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI.

could perpetrate the most atrocious of crimes, the im­

pious murder of their sovereign.11 For the crime of an

ambitious centurion, the nation which he oppressed was

chastised with the calamities of war; and the same cala­

mities, at the end of twenty years, were retaliated and

redoubled on the heads of the Persians.1 The general

who had restored Chosroes to the throne still commanded

in the east: and the name of Narses was the formidable

sound with which the Assyrian mothers were accustomed

to terrify their infants. It is not improbable, that a-na­

tive subject of Persia should encourage his master and

his friend to deliver and possess the provinces of Asia.

It is still more probable, that Chosroes should animate

his troops by the assurance that the sword which thev

dreaded the most would, remain in its scabbard, or be

drawn in their favour. The hero could not depend on

the faith of a tyrant; and the tyrant was conscious how

little he deserved the obedience of a hero: Narses was

removed from his military command; he reared an inde­

pendent standard at Hierapolis in Syria: he was betrayed

by fallacious promises, and burnt alive in the market­

place of Constantinople. Deprived of the only chief

whom they could fear or esteem, the bands which he had

led to victory were twice broken by the cavalry, tram­

pled by the elephants, and pierced by the arrows of the

barbarians ; and a great number of the captives were be­

headed on the field of battle by the sentence of the victor,

who might justly condemn these seditious mercenaries

as the authors of accomplices of the death of Maurice.

Under the reign of Phocas, the fortifications of Merdin,

Dara, Amida, and Edessa, were successively besieged, re-

k Chrislituiis nec pactum esse, nee (idem Dec foedus . . . .' quod si ulla
illis fides

fnisset, regem suum non occidi'ssent. Eutych. Annales, torn. 2. p. 211. vers
Pocock.

* We must now, for some ages, take our leave of contemporary historians, and de­  
scend, if it be a descent, from the affectation of rhetoric to the rude
simplicity of

chronicles and abridgments. Those of Theophanes, Chronograph, p. 244—279.)and

Nicephorus, p. 316, supply a regular, but imperfect series of the Persian war;
and

fur any additional facts 1 quole my special authorities. Theophanes, a
courlierwho

became a monk, was born A. D. 748; Nicephorus, patriarch of Constantinople,
who

died A. D. 829, was somewhat youuger: they both suffered in the cause of
images.

Hackius do Scriptoribus Byzantinis, p. 200—24C.

