288 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

the wide circumference, Narses assigned to himself, and

to each of his lieutenants, a real or a feigned attack,

while he silently marked the place of easy and unguard­

ed entrance. Neither the fortifications of Hadrian's

mole, nor of the port, could long delay the progress of

the conqueror; and Justinian once more received the

keys of Rome, which, under his reign, had been five

times taken and recovered.'' But the deliverance of

Rome was the last calamity of the Roman people. The

barbarian allies of Narses too frequently confounded the

privileges of peace and war: the despair of the flying

Goths found some consolation in sanguinary revenge:

and three hundred youths of the noblest families, who

had been sent as hostages beyond the Po, were inhu­

manly slain by the successor of Totila. The fate of the

senate suggests an awful lesson of the vicissitude of hu­

man affairs. Of the senators whom Totila had banished

from their country, some were rescued by an officer of

Belisarius, and transported from Campania to Sicily;

while others were too guilty to confide in the clemency

of Justinian, or too poor to provide horses for their es­

cape to the sea-shore. Their brethren languished five

years in a state of indigence and exile: the victory of

1 Narses revived their hopes; but their premature re­

turn to the metropolis was prevented by the furious

Goths; and all the fortresses of Campania were

stained with patricianr blood. After a period of thir­

teen centuries, the institution of Romulus expired; and

if the nobles of Rome still assumed the title of sena­

tors, few subsequent traces can be discovered of a pub­

lic council, or constitutional order. Ascend six hun­

dred years, and contemplate the kings of the earth soli-

1 Em rcunv gac-iMiwroc to m/iirrm iaX». In the year 536 by Belisarius, in 546

by Totila, in 547 by Belisarius, in 549 by Totila, and in 552 by Narses.
Maltretna

had inadvertently translated sextum; a mistake which he afterward retracts :
bnt the

mischief was done; and Cousin, with a train of French and Latin readers, hare
fallen

into the snare.

r Compare two passages of Procopios, (lib. 3. c. 26. lib. 4. c. 24.) which,
with

some collateral hints from Marcellinus and Joruandes, illustrate the state of
the ex­

piring senate.

