216 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.

collars incrusted with gold. The ambassadors, content

v with such liberal reception, departed from Constanti­

nople, and Valentin, one of the emperor's guards, was

sent with a similar character to their camp at the foot

of mount Caucasus. As their destruction or their suc­

cess must be alike advantageous to the empire, he per­

suaded them to invade the enemies of Rome; and they

were easily tempted, by gifts and promises, to gratify

their ruling inclinations; These fugitives, who fled be­

fore the Turkish arms, passed the Tanais and Borysthe-

nes, and boldly advanced into the heart of Poland and

Germany, violating the law of nations, and abusing the

rights of victory. Before ten years had elapsed, their

camps were seated on the Danube and the Elbe, many

Bulgarian and Sclavonian names were obliterated from

the earth, and the remainder of their tribes are found,

as tributaries and vassals, under, the standard of the

Avars. The chagan, the peculiar title of their king,

still affected to cultivate the friendship of the emperor;

and Justinian entertained some thoughts of fixing them

in Pannonia, to balance the prevailing power of the

Lombards. But the virtue or treachery of an Avar be­

trayed the secret enmity and ambitious designs of their

countrymen; and they loudly complained of the timid,

though jealous policy, of detaining their ambassadors,

and denying the arms which they had been allowed to

purchase in the capital of the empire.1

, Perhaps the apparent change in the dispositions of

the emperors, may be ascribed to the embassy which

Emhassies was received from the conquerors of the Avars.™ The

Turk's and immense distance, which eluded their arms, could not

Rotians,

A. D. 569- ......

58 j. 1 The emhassies and first conquests of the Avars may bo read in
Menander, (Er-

cerpt. Legat. p. 99—101. 154,155.) Theophanes, (p. 196.) the Historic.
Misoella,

.(lib. 16. p. 109.)and Gregory ofTours. (lib. 4. c. 23.29.inthe Historians
ofFrance,

tom. 2. p. 214. 217.)

, m Theophanes, (Chron. p. 204.) and the Hist. Misoella, (lib. 16. p..110.) as

understood by De Guignes, (tom. 1. part 2. p. 354.) appear to speak of a
Turkish

emhassy to Justinian himself;- but that of Maniach, in the fourth year of his
suc­

cessor Justin, is positively the first that reached Constantinople. (Menander,
p. 108.)

