CHAF. XLH.] OP THE ROMAN EMWRE. 033

struse and profound questions which amused the leisure

of the schools of Athens? Could they hope that the

precepts of philosophy should direct the life, and con-

troul the passions, of a despot, whose infancy had been

taught to consider his absolute and fluctuating will as the

only rule of moral obligation r* The studies of Chos-

roes were ostentatious and superficial: but his example

awakened the curiosity of an ingenious people, and the

light of science was diffused over the dominions of Per­

sia." At Gondi Sapor, in the neighbourhood of the

royal city of Susa, an academy of physic was founded,

which insensibly became a liberal school of poetry, phi­

losophy, and rhetoric.b The annals of the monarchy0

were composed; and while recent and authentic history

might afford some useful lessons both to the prince and

people, the darkness of the first ages was embellished by

the giants, the dragons, and the fabulous heroes of ori­

ental romance.*1 Every learned or confident stranger

Was enriched by the bounty, and flattered by the con­

versation, of the monarch: he nobly rewarded a Greek

physician,' by the deliverance of three thousand captives;

and the Sophists, who contended for his favour, were ex­

asperated by the wealth and insolence of Uranius, their

more successful rival. Nushirvan believed, or at least

*A thousand years before bis birth, the judges of Persia had given a solemn opinion  
—T<» Bcto-tXEuom Tlsfcrtan E^Eivat irtmia to ay Boi/Xstcu. (Herodot. lib. 3.
c. 31. p. 210.

edit. Wesseling.) Nor had this constitutional maxim been neglected as an
useless

and barren theory. » « • • '*

■ On the literary stale of Persia, the Greek versions, philosophers, sophists,
the

learning or ignorance of Chosroes, Agathias (lib. 2. c. 66—71.) displays much
infor­

mation and strong prejudices.

b Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 745—747.

c The Sbah Nameh, or book of Kings, is perhaps the original record of history

which was translated into Greek by the interpreter Sergins, (Agathias, lib. 5.
p. 141.)

preserved after the Mahometan conquest, and versified in the year 994, by the
na­

tional poet Ferdoussi. See d'Anquetil, (Mem. de l'Academie, torn. 51. p.
379.)and

Sir William Jones. (Hist, of Nader Sbah, p. 161.)

* In the fifth century, the name of Restom or Rostam, a hero who equalled the  
strength of twelve elephants, was familiar to the Armenians. (Moses
Choronensis,

Hist. Armen. lib. 2. c. 7. p. 96. edit. Whiston.) In the beginning of the
seventh,

the Persian Romance of Rostam and Isfendiar was applauded at Mecca. (Sale's

Koran, c. 31. p. 335.) Yet this exposition of lodicrum novae historiss, is not
given by

Maracci. (Refutat. Alcoran, p. 544—548.)

6 Procop. Goth. lib. 4. c. 10. Kobad had a favonrite Greek physician, Stephen
of

Kdessa. (Persic lib. 2. e. 26.) The practice was ancient; and Herodotus
relates

the adventures of JJemocedes of Crotona. (lib. 3. c. 125—137.)

