CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 280.

citing an audience, as the slaves or freedmen of the Ro­

man senate !5

The Gothic war was yet alive. The bravest of the Defeat and

nation retired beyond the Po; and Teias was unani- T^lbe

mously chosen to succeed and revenge their departed j^^jg of

hero. The new king immediately sent ambassadors to

implore, or rather to purchase, the aid of the Franks,

and nobly lavished, for the public safety, the riches

which had been deposited in the palace of Pavia. The *■ 1^553.

residue of the royal treasure was guarded by his brother'

Aligern at Cumae in Campania; but the strong castle

which Totila had forfeited, was closely besieged by the

arms of Narses. From the Alps to the foot of mount

Vesuvius, the Gothic king, by rapid and secret marches,

advanced to the relief of his brother, eluded the vigilance

of the Roman chiefs, and pitched his camp on the banks

oftheSarnus or Draco* which flows from Nuceria into

the bay of Naples. The river separated the two armies:

sixty days were consumed in distant and fruitless com­

bats, and Teias maintained this important post, till he

was deserted by his fleet and the hope of subsistence.

With reluctant steps he ascended the Lactarian mount,

where the physicians of Rome, since the time of Galen,

had sent their patients for the benefit of the air and the

milk." But the Goths soon embraced a more generous

resolution: to descend the hill, to dismiss their horses,

and to die in arms, and in the possession of freedom.

The king marched at their head, bearing in his right

hand a lance, and an ample buckler in his left: with the

• See, in the example of Prusias, as it is delivered in the fragments of
Polynias'

(Excerpt. Legat. 97. p. 927, 928.) a curions picture of a royal slave.

'The Apa*a» of Procopins (Goth. lib. 4. c. 35.) is evidently the Sarnas. Tiae
text

is accused or altered by the rash violence of Clnverius: (lib. 4. e. 3. p.
1156.) but

Camillo Pellegrini of Naples (Discorsi sopra la Campania Felice, p. 330, 331.)
has

proved from old records, that as early as tho year 822 that river was called
the Dra-

contio, or Draconcello.

» Galen (de Method. Medendi, lib. 5. apnd Clnver. lib. 4. o. 3. p. 1159,
1160.)

describes the lofty site, pure air, and rich milk of mount Lactarins, whose
medicinal

benefits were equally known and sought in the time of Sytumachus, (lib. 6.
epist. 18.)

and Cassiodorius, (Var. 11. 10.) Nothing is now left except the name of the
town

of Lei tere.

