CHAR. XLIV.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 357

ecclesiastical rulers. Yet the magistrates of Justinian

were not subject to the authority of the church: the

emperor consulted the unbelieving civilians of antiquity,

and the choice of matrimonial laws in the Code and

Pandects, is directed by the earthly motives of justice,

policy, and the natural freedom: of both sexes.g

Besides the agreement of the parties, the essence of ^"bLe

every rational contract, the Roman marriage requiredof divorce,

the previous approbation of the parents. A father

might be forced by some recent laws to supply the wants

of a mature daughter; but even his insanity was not

generally allowed to supersede the necessity of his con­

sent. The causes of the dissolution of matrimony have

varied among the Romans ;h but the most solemn sacra­

ment, the confarreation itself, might always be done

away by rites of a contrary tendency. In the first ages,

the father of a family might sell his children, and his wife

was reckoned in the number of his children: the do­

mestic judge might pronounce the death of the offender,

or his mercy might expel her from his bed and house;

but the slavery of the wretched female was hopeless and

perpetual, unless he asserted for his own convenience

the manly prerogative of divorce. The warmest ap­

plause has been lavished on the virtue of the Romans,

who abstained from the exercise of this tempting pri­

vilege above five hundred years:1 but the same fact ,

evinces the unequal terms of a connexion in which the

slave was unable to renounce her tyrant, and the tyrant

K The civil laws of marriage are exposed in the Institutes, (lib. t. tit. 10.)
the

Pandects, lib. 23—25.) and the Code; (lib. 5 ) but as the title de rita
nuptiarum is

jet imperfect,'we are obliged to explore the fragments of Ulpian, (tit. 9. p.
590, 591.)

and the Collatio Lcgum Mosaicarum, (tit. 16. p. 790, 791.) with the notes of
Pitha>

ns and Schulting. They find, in the Commentary of Servius (on the first
Georgic and

the fourth jEneid), two curious passages.

'h According to Plutarch, (p. 57.) Romulus allowed only three grounds of a di­

vorce—druukenness, adultery, and false keys. Otherwise,* the husband who
abused

his supremacy, forfeited half bis goods to the wife, and half to the goddess
Ceres,

and offered a sacrifice (wilh the remainder) to the terrestrial deities. This
strange

.law was either imaginary or transient.

1 In the year of Rome 523, SpurinsCarvilius Ruga repudiated a fair, a good,
but a

barren wife. (Dionysius Hal. lib. 2. p. 93. Plutarch in Numa, p. 141. Valerius

Maximus, lib. %. c 1. Aulus Gollius, 4. 3.) He was questioned by the censors,
and

bated t>y the people; but his divorce stood unimueached in law. ,

