CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 303

of bis eyes, and reduced by envy to beg his bread,

"Give a penny to Belisarius the general!" is a fiction

of later times,2 which has obtained credit, or rather

favour, as a strange example of the vicissitude of for­

tune.*

If the emperor could rejoice in the death of Belisarius, Death and

he enjoyed the base satisfaction only eight months, the of just?

last period of a reign of thirty-eight, and a life of eighty- 56J.

three years. It would be difficult to trace the character NoT-

of a prince who is not the most conspicuous object of

his own times: but the confessions of an enemy may be

received as the safest evidence of his virtues. The re­

semblance of Justinian to the bust of Domitian, is ma­

liciously urged ;* with the acknowledgment, however, of

• a well-proportioned figure, a ruddy complexion, and a

pleasing countenance. The emperor was easy of access,

patient of hearing, courteous and affable in discourse, and

a master of the angry passions, which rage with such de­

structive violence in the breast of a despot. Procopius

praises his temper to reproach him with calm and de­

served in the fragment of John Malala, (torn. 2. p. 234—243.) and the exact
Chroni­

cle of Theophanes. (p. 194—204.) Cedrenus(Corapend. p. 387, 388.) and Zonaras,

■(torn. 2.-Kb. 14. p. 69.) seem to hesitate between the obsolete troth and the
growing

falsehood.

z The sonrce of this idle fable may be derived from a miscellaneous work of
Uin

twelfth century, the Chiliads of John Tzetzes, a monk. (Basil. 1546. ad calcem
Lyco-

phront, Colon. Allobrog. 1614. in Corp. Poet. Graec.) He relates the blindness
and

beggary of Belisarius in ten ml gar or political verses, (Chiliad 3. no. 88.
339—348.

in Corp. Poet. Graso. torn. 2. p. 311.)

EKTTWjLUt %v\tvot xpaTftiy i0M TO fjU\lM

BfAlropioa oj3oXov Sort Tee orga-nXa-TH

Ov tvvv (A/it l9e$t01i, affon/^Xoi 3* o $9«vo;.'

This moral or romantic tale was imported into Italy with the language and
manu­

scripts of Greece; repeated before the end of the fifteenth century by
Crinitus, Pon-

tanus, and Volaterranus j attacked by Alciat, for the honour of tlis law; and
defend­

ed by Baronius (A. D. 461. no. 2, &c.) for the honour of the church. Yet
Tzetzes

himself had read in other chronicles, that Belisarius did not lose his sight,
and that

he recovered his fame and fortunes.

» The statue in the villa Borghese at Rome, in a silting posture, with an open
hand,

which is vulgarly given to Belisarius, may be ascribed with more dignity to
Augustus

in the act of propitiating Nemesis. (Winkeluian, Hist, de l'Art. torn. 3. p.
266.) Ex

nocturno visa etiam stipem, quotanois, die certo, emendicabat a populo, cavam
sna>

num asses porrigentibus pncbens. (Sueton. in August, c. 91. with an excellent
note

of Casaubon.)

» The ritoor of Domitian is stigmatized, quaintly enough, by the pen of
Tacitus;

(in Vit. Agricol. c. 45.) and has been likewise noticed by the younger Pliny,
(Pa-

negyr. c. 48.) and Suetonius, (in Domitian. c. 18. and Casaubon ad looum.)
Proco­

pius (Anecdot. c. 8.) foolishly believes that only one bust of Domitian bad
reached

the sixth century,

