CHAP. XLVI.]' OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 439

of Yemen or Arabia0 Felix; the distant land of myrrh

and frankincense, which had escaped, rather than op*

posed, the conquerors of the east. After the defeat of

Abrahah under the walls of Mecca, the discord of his

sons and brothers gave an easy entrance to the Persians:

they chased the strangers of Abyssinia beyond the Red

sea; and a native prince of the ancient Homerites was

restored to the throne as the vassal or viceroy of the great

Nushirvan.d But the nephew of Justinian declared his

resolution to avenge the injuries of his Christian ally the

prince of Abyssinia, as they suggested a decent pretence

to discontinue the annual tribute, which was poorly dis­

guised by the name of pension. The churches of Per*

sarmenia were oppressed by the intolerant spirit of the

Magi; they secretly invoked the protection of the Chris­

tians, and after the pious murder of their satraps, the re­

bels were avowed and supported as the brethren and sub­

jects of the Roman emperor. The complaints of Nu-

shirvan were disregarded by the Byzantine court; Justin

yielded to the importunities of the Turks, who offered

an alliance against the common enemy; and the Persian

monarchy was threatened at the same instant by the unit­

ed forces of Europe, of ^Ethiopia, and of Scythia. At

the age of fourscore, the sovereign of the east would

perhaps have chosen the peaceful enjoyment of his glory

and greatness: but as soon as war became inevitable, he His 'V?

took the field with the alacrity of youth, whilst the ag- the r0-

gressor trembled in the palace of Constantinople. Nush-1™! 573,

irvan, or Chosroes, conducted in person the siege of Dara; &0'

and although that important fortress had been left desti-

c The general independence of the Arabs, which cannot be admitted without many

limitations, is blindly asserted in a separate dissertation of the authors of
the Univer­

sal History, vol. 20. p. 196—250. A perpetual miracle is supposed to have
guard­

ed the prophecy in favour of the posterity of [shraael; and these learned
bigots are

not afraid to risk the truth of Christianity on this frail and slippery
foundation.

'* D'Herbelot, Biblioth. Orient, p. 477. Pooock, Specimen Hist. Arabum, p. 6i,

65. Father Pagi (Critioa, torn. 2. p. 646.) has proved, that after ten years
peace,

the Persian war, which coutiuued twenty year*), was renewed A. D.573. Mahomet

was born A. D. 569, in the year of the elephant, or the defeat of Abrahah;
(Gagnier,

Viede Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 89, 90. 98.) and this account allows two years for
the

conquest of Yemen.

