DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

The next morning the Bulgarian cavalry advanced to the

charge. But they heard the shouts of multitudes, they

beheld the arms and discipline of the front; theywere

assaulted on the flanks by two ambuscades which rose

from the woods; their foremost warriors fell by the hand

of the aged hero and his guards; and the swiftness of

their evolutions was rendered useless by the close attack

and rapid pursuit of the Romans. In this action (so

speedy was their flight) the Bulgarians lost only four

hundred horse; but Constantinople was saved; and Za-

bergan, who felt the hand of a master, withdrew to a

respectful distance. But his friends were numerous in

the councils of the emperor, and Belisariug obeyed with

reluctance, the commands of envy and Justinian, which

forbade him to achieve the deliverance of his country.

On his return to the city, the people, still conscious of

their danger, accompanied his triumph with acclamations

of joy and gratitude, which were imputed as a crime to

the victorious general. But when he entered the pa­

lace, the courtiers were silent, and the emperor after a

cold and thankless embrace, dismissed him to mingle

with the train of slaves. Yet so deep was the impression

of his glory on the minds of men, that Justinian, in the

seventy-seventh year of his age, was encouraged to ad­

vance near forty miles from the capital, and to inspect in

person the restoration of the long wall. The Bulgarians

wasted the summer in the plains of Thrace; but they

were inclined to peace by the failure of their rash at­

tempts on Greece and the Chersonesus. A menace of

killing their prisoners quickened the payment of heavy

ransoms; and the departure of Zabergan was hastened

by the report, that double-prowed vessels were built on

the Danube to intercept his passage. The danger was

soon forgotten; and a vain question, whether their sove­

reign had shewn more wisdom or weakness, amused the

idleness of the city.5

■ The Bulgarian war, and the last victory of Belisarius, are imperfectly
represent­

