CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 57

The popular dissensions, founded on the most serious

interest, or holy pretence, have scarcely equalled the ob­

stinacy of this wanton discord, which invaded the peace

of families, divided friends and brothers, and tempted

the female sex, though seldom seen in the circus, to es­

pouse the inclinations of their lovers, or to contradict

the wishes of their husbands. Every law, either human

or divine, was trampled under foot, and as long as the

party was successful, its deluded followers appeared care­

less of private distress or public calamity. The licence,

without the freedom, of democracy, was revived at An-

tioch and Constantinople, and the support of a faction

became necessary to every candidate for civil or ecclesi­

astical honours. A secret attachment to the family or

sect of Anastasius was imputed to the greens; the blues

were zealously devoted to the cause of orthodoxy and

Justinian,2 and their grateful patron protected, above Justinian

five years, the disorders of a faction, whose seasonable hiuel" *

tumults overawed the palace, the senate, and the capi­

tals of the east. Insolent with royal favour, the blues

affected to strike terror by a peculiar and barbaric dress,

the long hair of the Huns, their close sleeves and am­

ple garments, a lofty step, and a sonorous voice. In the

day they concealed their two-edged poignards, but in

the night they boldly assembled in arms, and in nume­

rous bands, prepared for every act of violence and rapine.

Their adversaries of the green faction, or even inoffen­

sive citizens, were stripped and often murdered by these

nocturnal robbers, and it became dangerous to wear any

gold buttons or girdles, or to appear at a late hour in the

streets of a peaceful capital. A daring spirit, rising with

impunity, proceeded to violate the safeguard of private

houses; and fire was employed to facilitate the attack,

or to conceal the crimes of those factious rioters. No

(p. 26.) has quoted a fine passage from Gregory Nazianzen, which proves the
in­

veteracy of the evil.

1 The partiality of Jastinian for the bines (Anecdot. c. 7.) is attested by
Evagrius,

(Hist. Eceles. lib. 4. c. 32.) John Malala, (tom. 2. p. 138,139.) especially
for An-

tioch; and Theophanes. (p. 142.)

VOL. V. F

