CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

martial train of one thousand nobles, and five thousand

Gothic soldiers, who signalized theirvalour in the Moor­

ish wars. Their merit was overrated by themselves, and

perhaps neglected by the Vandals: they viewed the

country with envy, and the conquerors with disdain ; but

their real or fictitious conspiracy was prevented by a

massacre; the Goths were oppressed, and the captivity

of Amalafrida was soon followed by her secret and sus­

picious death. The eloquent pen of Cassiodorius was

employed to reproach the Vandal court with the cruel

violation of every social and public duty; but the ven­

geance which he threatened, in the name of his sovereign,

might be derided with impunity, as long as Africa was

protected by the sea, and the Goths were destitute of a

navy. In the blind impotence of grief and indignation,

they joyfully saluted the approach of the Romans, en­

tertained the fleet of Belisarius in the ports of Sicily,

and were speedily delighted or alarmed by the surprising

intelligence, that their revenge was executed beyond the

measure of their hopes, or perhaps of their wishes. To

their friendship the emperor was indebted for the king­

dom of Africa, and the Goths might reasonably think,

that they were entitled to resume the possession of a bar­

ren rock, so recently separated as a nuptial gift from the

island of Sicily. They were soon undeceived by the

haughty mandate of Belisarius, which excited their tardy

and unavailing repentance. "The city and promontory

of Lilyba?um (said the Roman general), belonged to the

Vandals, and I claim them by the right of conquest.

Your submission may deserve the favour of the emperor;

your obstinacy will provoke his displeasure, and must

kindle a war, that can terminate only in your utter ruin

If you compel us to take up arms, we shall contend, not

to regain the possession of a single city, but to deprive

you of all the provinces which you unjustly withhold

from their lawful sovereign." A nation of two hundred

thousand soldiers might have smiled at the vain menace

