150 DECLINE AND FALJ. [CHAP. XLI,

conquest, true knowledge of the state of the Vandals.8 The long

man* in continuance of the Italian war delayed the punishment

ajd.'550 of the Visigoths; and the eyes of Theudes were closed

—620. before they tasted the fruits of his mistaken policy. After

his death, the sceptre of Spain was disputed by a civil war.

The weaker candidate solicited the protection of Justi­

nian; and ambitiously subscribed a treaty of allianpe,

which deeply wounded the independence and happiness

of his country. Several cities, bpth' on the ocean and.

the Mediterranean, were ceded to the Roman troops,

who afterward refused to evacuate those pledges, as it

should seem, either of safety or payment; and as they

were fortified by perpetual supplies from Africa, they

maintained their impregnable stations, for the mischiev­

ous purpose of inflaming the civil and religious factions

of the barbarians. Seventy years elapsed before this

painful thorn could be extirpated from the bosom of the

monarchy; and as long as the emperors retained any

share of these remote and useless possessions, their va­

nity might number Spain in the list of their provinces,

and the successors of Alaric in the rank of their vas­

sals.1' .

Beiisariu* The error of the Goths who reigned in Italy was less

ibTo.^ excusable than that of their Spanish brethren, and their

fta'i'y °f punishment was still more immediate and terrible. From

a.u. 534. a motive of private revenge, they enabled their most dan­

gerous enemy to destroy their most valuable ally. A

sister of the great Theodoric had been given in marriage

to Thrasimond the African king:° on this occasion, the

fortress of Lilybaeumd in Sicily was resigned to the Van­

dals: and the princess Amalafrida was attended by a

a Procopius, Vandal, lib. 1. o. 24.

b See the original chronicle of Isidore, and the fifth and sixth books of the
History

of Spain by Mariana. The Romans were finally expelled by Suintila, the king of
the

Visigoths, (A. D. £21—626.) after their reunion to the Catholic church.

c See the marriage and fate of Amalafrida iu Procopins, (Vandal, lib. 1. e. 8,
9.')

and in Cassiodorius, (Var. 9. 1.) the expostulation of her royal brother.
Compare

JikowUe the Chronicle of Victor Tunnunensis.

Lilybacum was built by the Carthaginians, Olymp. 95. 4. and in the first Funic

war, a strong situation, and excellent harbour, rendered that flace an
important object

tu both nations.

