CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

seven fortresses were built in the most accessible passes,

to exclude the ambition of the Persian monarch.p The

principle source of the Euphrates descends from the

Chalybian mountains, and seems to flow towards the

west and the Euxine; bending to the south-west, the

river passes under the walls of Satala and Melitene

(which were restored by Justinian as the bulwarks of

the Lesser Armenia), and gradually approaches the Me­

diterranean sea; till at length repelled by mount Taurus,'1

the Euphrates inclines his long and flexible course to the

south-east and the gulph of Persia* Among the Roman

cities beyond the Euphrates, we distinguish two recent

foundations, which were named from Theodosius, and

the relics of the martyrs; and two capitals, Amida and

Edessa, which are celebrated in the history of every age.

Their strength was proportioned, by Justinian, to the

danger of their situation. A ditch and palisade might

be sufficient to resist the artless force of the cavalry of

Scythia; but more elaborate works were required to sus­

tain a regular siege against the arms and treasures of the

great king. His skilful engineers understood the me­

thods of conducting deep mines, and of raising platforms

Xo the level of the rampart: he shook the strongest bat­

tlements with his military engines, and sometimes ad­

vanced to the assault with a line of moveable turrets on

the backs of elephants. In the great cities of the east,

the disadvantage of space, perhaps of position, was com­

pensated by the zeal of the people, who seconded the

garrison in the defence of their country and religion;

and the fabulous promise of the Son of God, that Edes­

sa should never be taken, filled the citizens with violent

confidence, and chilled the besiegers with doubt and dis­

may/ The subordinate towns of Armenia and Meso-

P Procopius, Persic. lib. i. c. 15. De Edjfic. lib. 3. c. 6.

<l Ni Tanrus obstet in nostra maria Venturas, (Pomponias Mela, 3. 8.) Pliny, a

poet as well as a naturalist, (v. 20.) personifies the river and monntain, and
describes

their combat. See the coarse of the Tigris and Euphrates, in the excellent
treatise

df d'Anville.

'Procopius (Persic, lib. 2. c. 12.) tells the story with the tone half
sceptical, half

