DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.'

selves. Their importance was measured by their vicinity

to the empire; and the level country of Moldavia and

Walachia was occupied by the Antes/1 a Sclavonian-

tribe, which swelled the titles of Justinian with an epi­

thet of conquest/ Against the Antes he erected the

fortifications of the Lower Danube; and laboured to se­

cure the alliance of a people seated in the direct chan­

nel of northern inundation, an interval of two hundred

miles between the mountains of Transylvania and the

Euxine sea. But the Antes wanted power and inclina^

tion to stem the fury of the torrent: and the light-armed

fSclavonians, from a hundred tribes, pursued with almost

equal speed the footsteps of the Bulgarian horse. The

payment of one piece of gold for each soldier, procured

a safe and easy retreat through the country of the Ge-

pida3, who commanded the passage of the Upper Da­

nube.' The hopes or fears of the barbarians; their in­

testine union or discord; the accident of a frozen or

shallow stream; the prospect of harvest or vintage; the

prosperity or distress of the Romans; were the causes

"which produced the uniform repetition of annual visits,1

tedious in the narrative, and destructive in the event,

The same year, and possibly the same month, in which

Ravenna surrendered, was marked by an invasion of the

Huns or Bulgarians, so dreadful, that it almost effaced

the memory of their past inroads. They spread from

the suburbs of Constantinople to the Ionian Gulf, de*-

stroyed thirty-two cities or castles, erazed Potidaea,

which Athens had built and Philip had besieged, and

repassed the Danube, dragging at their horses' heels

i Antes eorum forlissimi.. . Taysis qui rapidns et vorticosus in H istri
fluenla fa-

rens devolvitur. (Jornandes, e. 5. p. 194. edit. Murator. Procopius, Goth.
lib. 3. Cy

14. et de Kdific. lib. 4. c. 7.) Yet the same Procopius mentions the Goths and
Hung

as neighbours. yurovouvTa, to the Danube, (de Edifio. lib. 4. c. 1.)

r The national title of Anlicus, in the laws and inscriptions of Justinian,
was adopt­

ed by his successors, and is justified by the pious Ludewig (in Vit.
Justinian, p. 515.)

It had strangely puzzled the civilians of the middle age.

8 Procopius, Goth. lib. 4. c. 25.

* An inroad of the Huns is connected, by Procopius, with a comet; porhaps that  
of 531. (Persic, lib. 2. c. 4.) Agathaias (lib. 5. p. 154, 155.) borrows from
his

predecessor some early facts.

