64 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

In this narrow space, the disorderly and affrighted crowd

was incapable of resisting on either side a firm and regu­

lar attack; the blues signalized the fury of their repent­

ance; and it is computed, that above thirty thousand

persons were slain in the merciless and promiscuous car­

nage of the day. Hypatius was dragged from his throne,

and conducted with his brother Pompey to the feet of

the emperor: they implored his clemency; but their

crime was manifest, their innocence uncertain, and Jus­

tinian had been too much terrified to forgive. The next

morning the two nephews of Anastasius, with eighteen

illustrious accomplices, of patrician or consular rank, were

privately executed by the soldiers; their bodies were

thrown into the sea, their palaces razed, and their for­

tunes confiscated. The hippodrome itself was condemn­

ed during several years to a mournful silence: with the

restoration of the games, the same disorders revived: and

the blue and green factions continued to afflict the reign

of Justinian, and to disturb the tranquillity of the eastern

empire,8 , ■ . •

Agriculture HI. That empire, after Rome was barbarous, still em-

factures of braced the nations whom she had conquered beyond the

*?*i£erD Hadriatic, and, as far as the frontiers of ^Ethiopia and  
Persia. Justinian reigned over sixty-four provinces, and

nine hundred and thirty-five cities ;h his dominions were

blessed by nature with the advantages of soil, situation,

and climate; and the improvements of human art had

been perpetually diffused along the coast of the Mediter­

ranean and the banks of the Nile, from ancient Trov to

the ^Egyptian Thebes. Abraham1 had been relieved by

K Marcellinus says in generat terms, innumeris populis in circo trucidatis.
Pro.

copins numbers thirty thousand victims: and the thirty-five thousand of
Theophanes

are swelled to forty thousand by the more recent Zonaras. Such is the usual
pro­

gress of exaggeration,

b Hierocles, a contemporary of Justinian, composed his Juvh^uo;, (Itineraria,

p. 631.) or review of the eastern provinces and cities, before the year 535.
(Wesseling

in Prafat. and Not. ad. p. 623, &c.)

■ See the book of Genesis, (12.10.) and the administration of Joseph. The
annals

of the Greeks and Hebrews agree in the early arts and plenty of jEgypt: but
this

antiquity supposes a long series of improvements: and Warhurton, who is almost

stifled by the Hebrew, catls aloud for the Samaritan chronology. (Divine
Legation,

vol. 3. p. 29, Sec.)

