CHAP. XLIIt.] Of *HE R6MAN EMPIRE. 46"3

till they were roused to action by the progress of To- July. ^

tHa and the reproaches of Justinian. The gates of Ve- —544.

rona were secretly opened to Artabazus, at the head of

one hundred Persians in the service of the empire. The

Goths fled from the city. At the distance of sixty-fur­

longs the Roman generals halted to regulate the divi­

sion of the spoil. While they disputed, the enemy dis<-

covered the real number of the victors: the Persians

were instantly overpowered, and it was by leaping from

the wall that Artabazus preserved a life which he lost in

a few days by the lance of a barbarian, who had defied

him to single combat. Twenty thousand Romans en­

countered the forces of Totila, near Faenza, and on the

hills of Mugello, of the Florentine territory. The ar­

dour of freedmen, who fought to regain their country,

was opposed to the languid temper of mercenary troops,

who were even destitute of the merits of strong and well-

disciplined servitude. On the first attack they abandoned

their ensigns, threw down their arms, and dispersed on

all sides with an active speed which abated the loss, whilst

it aggravated the shame, of their defeat. The king of

the Goths, who blushed for the baseness of his enemies,

pursued with rapid steps the path of honour and victor)'.

Totila passed the Po, traversed the Appennine, suspended

the important conquest of Ravenna, Florence, and Rome,

and marched through the heart of Italy, to form the

siege, or rather blockade, of Naples. The Roman chiefs,

imprisoned in their respective cities, and accusing each

other of the common disgrace, did not presume to dis­

turb his enterprise. But the emperor, alarmed by the

distress and danger of his Italian conquests, dispatched

to the relief of Naples a fleet of galleys and a body of

Thracian and Armenian soldiers. They landed in Si­

cily, which yielded its copious stores of provisions; but

the delays of the new commander, an unwarlike magis­

trate, protracted the sufferings of the besieged; and the

succours, which he dropped with a timid and tardy hand,

