104 •"• DECLINE AND FALL [CHA?. XL.

the Volga. A fortress, designed by Alexander, perhaps,

or one of his successors, tocommand that important

pass, had descended by right of conquest or inheritance to

a prince of the Huns, who offered it for a moderate price

to the emperor: but while Anastasius paused, while he

timorously computed the cost and the distance, a more

vigilant rival interposed, and Cabades forcibly occupied

the straits of Caucasus. The Albanian and Iberian gates

excluded the horsemen of Scythia from the shortest and

most practicable roads, and the whole front of the moun­

tains was covered by the rampart of Gog and Magog,

the long wall which has excited the curiosity of an Ara­

bian caliphb and a Russian conqueror.0 According-to a

recent description, huge stones, seven feet thick, twenty-

one feet in length, or height, are artificially joined with­

out iron or cement, to compose a wall, which runs above

three hundred miles from the shores of Derbend, over

the hills and through the valleys of Daghestan and

Georgia. Without a vision, such a work might be un­

dertaken by the policy of Cabades; without a miracle, it

might be accomplished by his son, so formidable to the

Romans under the name of Chosroes; so dear to the

Orientals, under the appellation of Nushirwan. The

Persian monarch held in his hand the keys both of peace

and war; but he stipulated in every treaty, that Justinian-

should contribute to the expense of a common barrier,

which equally protected the two empires from the inroads

of the Scythians.d • ' -

VII. Justinian suppressed the schools of Athens and

the consulship of Rome, which had given so many sages

b The imaginary rampart of Cog and Magog, which was seriously explored and

believed by a caliph of the ninth century, appears to be derived from the
gates of

Moant Caucasus, and a vague report of the wall of China. (Geograph. Nuhiunsis,
p.

267—270. Memoires de l'Academie, tom. 31. p. 210—219.)

1 See a learned dissertation of Baier, dsmuro Cuucaseo, in Comment. Acad.
Petro-

pol. anu. 1726. tom. 1. p. 425—463. but it is destitute of a map or plan. When
the

Czar Peter I. became master of Derbend in the year 1722, the measure of the
wall was

found to be three thousand two hundred and eighty-five Russian wgygie, or
fathom*

each of seven feet English ; in the whole somewhat more than four mites in
length.

- 0 See the forti6cations and treaties of Chosroes or Nushirwan, in Procopius, (Per­  
sic. lib. 1. c. 16. 22. lib. 2.) and d'Herbeiot. (p. 682.)

