CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 227

assembly of Nushirvan and his nobles. The Indian ori­

ginal, and the Persian copy, have long since disappeared:

but this venerable monument has been saved by the

curiosity of the Arabian caliphs, revived in the modern

Persic, the Turkish, the Syriac, the Hebrew, and the

Greek idioms, and transfused through successive ver­

sions into the modern languages'of Europe. In theii*

present form, the peculiar character, the manners and

religion of the Hindoos, are completely obliterated ; and

the intrinsic merit of the fables of Pilpay is far inferior to

the concise elegance of Phaedrus and the native graces of

La Fontaine. Fifteen moral and political sentences are

illustrated in a series of apologues: but the composition

is intricate, the narrative prolix, and the precept obvious

and barren. Yet the Brachman may assume the merit

of inventing a pleasing fiction, which adorns the naked*

ness of truth, and alleviates, perhaps, to a royal ear, the

harshness of instruction. With a similar design, to ad­

monish kings that they are strong only in the strength

of their subjects, the same Indians invented the game of

chess, which was likewise introduced into Persia under

the reign of Nushirvan.k

The son of Kobad found his kingdom involved in a Peace and

war with the successor of Constantine; and the anxiety ^"Ro­

of his domestic situation inclined him to grant the sus- '™q'53S_

pension of arms, which Justinian was impatient to pur-539-

chase. Chosroes saw the Roman ambassadors at his

feet. He accepted eleven thousand pounds of gold, as

the price of an endless or indefinite peacesome mutual

Greek, translated by Simeon Seth, (A. D. 1100.) from the Arabic, and published
by

Slarck, at Berlin, in 1697, in 12mo. 2. In Latin, a version from the Greek,
Sapientia

Indoram, inserted by pere Ponssin at the end of bis edition of Pachymer. (p.
547—

620. edit. Roman.) 3. In French, from the Turkish, dedicated, in 1540, to
sultan

Soliman. Contes et Fables Indiennes de Bidpai et de Lokman, par M. M. Galland

et Cardonne, Paris, 1778, 3 vols, in 12mo. Mr. Wharton (History of English
Poetry,

toI. 1. p. 129—131.) takes a larger scope.

k See the Historia Shahilndi of Dr. Hyde. (Syntagm. Dissertat. loin. 2. p. 61

—69.)

'The endless peace (Procopins, Persic, lib. 1. c. 21.) was concluded or
ratified in

the sixth year, and third consnlship of Jnstinian. (A. O. 533, between January
1,

and April 1. Pagi, torn. 2. p. 550.) Maroellinus, in his Chronicle, uses the
style of

the Medes and Persians.

