DECLINE AND FALL [eHAP. XXXIX.

the throne of his son, humbly received, as a gift, the se­

cond rank in the empire, and soon excited the public

suspicion on the sudden and premature death of his

young colleague, whose life could no longer promote the

success of his ambition. But the palace of Constanti­

nople was ruled by female influence, and agitated by fe­

male passions: and Verina, the widow of Leo, claiming

his empire as her own, pronounced a sentence of deposi­

tion against the worthless and ungrateful servant on

whom she alone had bestowed the sceptre of the east.'

As soon as she sounded a revolt in the ears of Zeno, he

fled with precipitation into the mountains of Isauria,

and her brother Basiliscus, already infamous by his Afri­

can expedition,* was unanimously proclaimed by the ser­

vile senate. But the reign of the usurper was short and

turbulent. Basiliscus presumed to assassinate the lover

of his sister; he dared to offend the lover of his wife,

the vain and insolent Harmatius, who, in the midst of

Asiatic luxury, affected the dress, the demeanour, and the

surname, of Achilles.11 By the conspiracy of the male-

contents, Zeno was recalled from exile; the armies, the

capital, the person, of Basiliscus, were betrayed; and his

whole family was condemned to the long agony of cold

and hunger by the inhuman conqueror, who wanted

courage to encounter or to forgive his enemies. The

haughty spirit of Verina was still incapable of submission

or repose. She provoked the enmity of afavourite general,

embraced his cause as soon as he was disgraced, created

a new emperor in Syria and Egypt, raised an army of se­

venty thousand men, and persisted to the last moment

of her life in a fruitless rebellion, which, according to the

fashion of the age, had been predicted by Christian her­

mits and Pagan magicians. While the east was afflicted

by the passions of Verina, her daughter Ariadne was

'Thenphanes (p. 111.) inserts a copy of her tarred letters to the provinces:
nf

in (Zeta-iXtuv njuErfgw tn • . . xiti oti vr^o^ti^ia-jtfxtBa. £acriXEe t Tgae-
itaXMraKV, &C. Such

female pretensions would have astonished the slaves of the JirU Caesars.

* Vol. 4. c. 36.

k Suidas, tom. 1. p. 333, 333. edit. Kuster. . .

