CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 30.

been permitted to mingle with the benefactors of man­

kind, if an Italian hermit had not been witness in a vision

to the damnation of Theodoric,q whose soul was plunged,

by the ministers of divine vengeance, into the volcano

of Lipari, one of the flaming mouths of the infernal

world/ i

CHAP. XL.

Elevation of Jnstin the elder.—Reign of Justinian.—I. The Empress
Theodora.—II.

Factions of the circus,and sedition of Constantinople.—111. Trade and
manufacture

of silk.—IV. Finances and taxes.—V. Edifices of Justinian.—Church of St.
Sophia.—

Fortifications and frontiers of the eastern empire.—Abolition of the schools
of

Athens, and the consulship of Rome.

The emperor Justinian was born* near the ruins of Birth of the

Sardica (the modern Sophia), of an obscure raceb of bar- JSun.

barians,0 the inhabitants of a wild and desolate country,A- d-488-

. M»J 5, or

to which the names of Dardania, of Dacia, and of Bui- a. d 483,

garia, have been successively applied. His elevation was M*3 l'

prepared by the adventurous spirit of his uncle Justin,

who, with two other peasants of the same village, de­

serted, for the profession of arms, the more useful em­

ployment of husbandmen or shepherds.*1 On foot, with

a scanty provision of biscuit in their knapsacks, the

three youths followed the high road of Constantinople,

and were soon enrolled, for their strength and stature,

1 This legend is related by Gregory I. (Dialog. 4. 36.) and approved by
Baronius;

(A. D. 526. no. 28.) and both the pope and cardinal are grave doctors,
sufficient to

establish a probable opinion.

r Theodnric himself, or rather Cassiodorius, had described in tragic strains
the

volcanps of Lipari (Clnver. Sicilia. p. 406—410.) and Vesuvius. (4. 50.)

a There is some difficulty in the date of his birth; (Ludewig in Vit.
Justiniani,

p. 125.)nbne in the place—the district Bederiana—the village Tauresium, which
he

afterward decorated with his name and splendour. (D'Anville, Hist, de l'Acad.
&c.

torn. 31. p. 287. 292.)

b The names of these Dardanian peasants are Gothic, and almost English: Justi­

nian is a translation of Mjjraurfu (ujrright); his father Sebatius (in Grreco-
barbaroua

language stipes,) was styled in his village htock (Stock); his mother
Bigleniza was

aoflened into Vigilantia.

c Ludewig (p. 127—135.) attempts to justify the Anician name of Justinian and

Theodora, and to connect them with a family, from which the house of Austria
has

been derived.

d See the anecdotes of Procopius, (c. 6.) with the notes of N. Alemannus. The

Sjatirist would not have sunk, in the vaguo and decent appellation of
yttcpyoc, the

(JouzoXo; and <rv$t(So; of Zouaras. Yet why are those names disgraceful ?—and
what

German baron would not be proud to descend from the Enmssns of the Odyssey?

