CHAP. XLI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 177.

The epistle of Belisarius to the emperor announced DeliTCfr"(|j

his victory, his danger, and his resolution. "Accord-oitj.

ing to your commands, we have entered the dominions

of the Goths, and reduced to your obedience, Sicily,

Campania, and the city of Rome: but the loss of these

conquests will be more disgraceful than their acquisition

was glorious. Hitherto we have successfully fought

against the multitude of the barbarians, but their multi­

tudes may finally prevail. Victory is the gift of Provi­

dence, but the reputation of kings and generals depends

on the success or the failure of their designs. Permit

me to speak with freedom: if you wish that we should

live, send us subsistence; if you desire that we should

conquer, send us arms, horses, and men. The Romans

have received us as friends and deliverers; but in our

present distress, they will be either betrayed by their

confidence, or we shall be oppressed by their treachery

and hatred. For myself, my life is consecrated to your

service: it is yours to reflect, whether my death in this

situation will contribute to the glory and prosperity of

your reign." Perhaps that reign would have been

equally prosperous, if the peaceful master of the east had

abstained from the conquest of Africa and Italy ; but as

Justinian was ambitious of fame, he made some efforts,

they were feeble and languid, to support and rescue his

victorious general. A reinforcement of sixteen hun­

dred Sclavonians and Huns was led by Martin and Va­

lerian; and as they had reposed during the winter sea­

son in the harbours of Greece, the strength of the men

and horses was not impaired by the fatigues of a sea-

voyage; and they distinguished their valour in the first

sally against the besiegers. About the time of the sum­

mer solstice, Euthalius landed at Terracina with large

sums of money for the payment of the troops; he cau­

tiously proceeded along the Appian way, and this con­

voy entered Rome through the gate Capena/ while Be-

* The old Capena was removed bj Aurcliau lo, or near, the modern gate of St. Sc-.

