CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

cise of similar diligence. Such, in truth, may be the

freedom and plenty of a small colony cast on a fruitful

island. But the colony multiplies, while the space still

continues the same; the common rights, the equal in­

heritance of mankind, are engrossed by the bold and

crafty; each field and forest is circumscribed by the

landmarks of a jealous master; and it is the peculiar

praise of the Roman jurisprudence, that it asserts the

claim of the first occupant to the wild animals of the

earth, the air, and the waters. In the progress of pri­

mitive equity to final ipjustice, the steps are silent, the

shades are almost imperceptible, and the absolute mono­

poly is guarded by positive laws and artificial reason. The

active insatiate principle of self-love can only supply the

arts of life and the wages of industry; and as soon as

civil government and exclusive property have been intro­

duced, they become necessary to the existence of the

human race. Except in the singular institutions of Sparta;

the wisest,legislators have disapproved an Agrarian law

as a false and dangerous innovation. Among the Ro­

mans, the enormous disproportion of wealth surmount­

ed the ideal restraints of a doubtful tradition, and an

obsolete statute; a tradition that the poorest follower of

Romulus had been endowed with the perpetual inherit­

ance of two jugeraa statute which confined the rich^

est citizen to the measure of five hundred jugera, or

three hundred and twelve acres of land. The original

territory of Rome consisted only of some miles of wopd

and meadow along the banks of the Tiber; and domes­

tic exchange could add nothing to the national stock.

But the goods of an alien or enemy were lawfully ex­

posed to the first hostile occupier; the city was enriched

by the profitable trade of war; and the blood of her sons

was the only price that was paid for the Volscian sheep^

1 The heredium of the first Romans is defined by Varro, (de Re Rustica, lib.
i.

o. 2. p. 141. o. 10. p. 160, 161. edit. Gesner.) and clouded by Pliny's
declamation.

(Hist. Natur. 1B. 2.) A just and learned comment is given in the
Administration des

Terres chra lcs ftomaius. (p. 12—66.) .'■j

