352 bECLiNE AND FALL [cHAP. XLIV.

scendants were included in the family of their common

ancestor; and the claims of adoption were not less sa­

cred or less rigorous than those of nature. Without

fear, though not without danger of abuse, the Roman

legislators had reposed an unbounded confidence in the

sentiments of paternal love; and the oppression was

tempered by the assurance, that each generation must

succeed in its turn to the awful dignity of parent and

master.

slnj'ofthe' ^e ^rs^ limitation of paternal power is ascribed to

•uthorHy Just'ce and humanity of Numa : and the maid, who,

with his father's consent, had espoused a freeman, was

protected from the disgrace of becoming the wife of a

slave. In the first ages, when the city was pressed, and

often famished by her Latin and Tuscan neighbours,

the sale of children might be a frequent practice; but as

a Roman could not legally purchase the liberty of his

fellow-citizen, the market must gradually fail, and the

trade would be destroyed by the conquests of the repub­

lic. An imperfect right of property was at length com­

municated to sons; and the three-fold distinction oipro-

fectitious, adventitious, and professional, was ascertained

by the jurisprudence of the Code and Pandects.11 Of all

that proceeded from the father, he imparted only the use,

and reserved the absolute dominion; yet if his goods

were sold, the 'filial portion was excepted, by a favourable

interpretation, from the demands of the creditors. In

whatever accrued by marriage, gift, or collateral succes­

sion, the property was secured to the son ; but the father, ^

•unless he had been specially excluded, enjoyed the usu­

fruct during his life. As a just and prudent reward of

military virtue, the,spoils of the enemy were acquired,

.Noctes Atticap, 1. 2.) The lessons of the philosopher Taurus were justified
by the

old and memorable example of Fahius; and we may contemplate the same story in

the style of Livy, (24. 34.) and the homely idiom of Claudius Quadrigarius the
an­

nalist. 'i. . ' .

4 See the'gradual enlargement and security of tlie filial peculinm in the
Institutes,

<lib.2. tit. 9.) the Pandects, (lib. 15u tit. 1. lib. 41. tit. 1.) and the
Code. (lib. 4; tit.

26, 97.)

