@2 , DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL

Homo?' The fortifications of Europe and Asia were multiplied

Europe, by Justinian; but the repetition of those timid and fruit?

less precautions exposes to a philosophic eye the debility

of the empire.' From Belgrade to the Euxine,from the

conflux of the Save to the mouth of the Danube, a chain

of above fourscore fortified places was extended along

the banks of the great river. Single watch-towers were

changed into spacious citadels; vacant walls, which the

engineers contracted or enlarged according to the na­

ture of the ground, were filled with colonies or garri­

sons; a strong fortress defended the ruins of Trajan's

bridge," and several military stations affected to spread

beyond the Danube the pride of the Roman name. But

that name was divested of its terrors; the barbarians, in

their annual inroads, passed, and contemptuously re­

passed, before these useless bulwarks; and the inhabit­

ants of the frontiers, instead of reposing under the sha­

dow of the general defence, were compelled to guard,

with incessant vigilance, their separate habitations. The

solitude of ancient cities was replenished; the new foun­

dations of Justinian acquired, perhaps too hastily, the

epithets of impregnable and populous; and the auspici­

ous place of his own nativity attracted the grateful rever­

ence of the vainest of princes. Under the name oiJusti-

niana prima,the obscure village of Tauresium became the

seat of an archbishop and a prefect, whose jurisdiction

extended over seven warlike provinces of Illyricum,x and

ocean grow to Ihe length of fifty, eighty, or one hundred feet. (Hist, des
Voyages,

.tom. 15. p. 289. Pennant's British Zoology, vol. 3. p. 35.)

« Montesquieu observes, (tom. 3. p. 503. Considerations sur la Grandeur et la

-Decadence des Romains, c. 20.) that Justinian's empire was like France in the time  
of the Norman iuroads—never so weak as when every village was fortified.

u Procopins affirms, (lib. 4. o. 6.) that the Danube was stopped by the ruins
of the

bridge. Had Apollodorus, the architect, left a description of his own work,
the fa­

bulous wonders of Dion Cassius (lib. 68. p. 1129.) would have been corrected
by the

genuine picture, Trajan's bridge consisted of twenty or twenty-two stone piles
with

wooden arches; the river is shallow, the current gentle, and the whole
interval no

more than four hnndred and forty-three (Reimar ad Dion, from MarSigli) or five

hnndred and fifteen tuises. (d'Anville Geographie Ancienne, tom. 1. p. 305.)

* Of the two Dacias, Mediterrunea and Ripensis, Dardania, Praevalitana, the se­  
cond Msr'sia, and the second Macedonia. See Justinian. (Novell. 11.) who
speaks,

bfhis custles beyond the Danube, and of homines semper' bellicis sudoribus
mbtBr

rentes.

