80 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.

taries alone, who became the victims of his orthodox

avarice/

The minis- Dishonour might be ultimately reflected on the cha-

ters of ° J

Justinian, racter of Justinian; but much of the guilt, and still

more of the profit, was intercepted by the ministers, who

were seldom promoted for their virtues, and not always

selected for their talents/ The merits of Tribonian the

quaestor will hereafter be weighed in the reformation of

the Roman law; but the economy of the east was sub­

ordinate to the prastorian prefect, and Procopius has

justified his anecdotes by the portrait which he exposes

in his public history, of the notorious vices of John of

John of Cappadocia.2 His knowledge was not borrowed from

Cjppadocia. ^ schools/ and his style was scarcely legible; but he

excelled in the powers of native genius, to suggest the

wisest counsels, and to find expedients in the most des­

perate situations. The corruption of his heart was equal

to the vigour of his understanding. Although he was

suspected of magic and Pagan superstition, he appeared

insensible to the fear of God or the reproaches of man;

and his aspiring fortune was raised on the death of

thousands, the poverty of millions, the ruin of cities,

and the desolation of provinces. From the dawn of

light to the moment of dinner, he assiduously laboured

to enrich his master and himself at the expense of the

Roman world; the remainder of the day was spent in

sensual and obscene pleasures, and the silent hours of

the night were interrupted by the perpetual dread of the

justice of an assassin. His abilities, perhaps his vices,

recommended him to the lasting friendship of Justinian:

the emperor yielded with reluctance to the fury of the

* John Malala, torn. 2. p. 101—103.

y One of these, Anatolins, perished in an earthquake—doubtless a judgment! The

complaints and olamours of the people in Agathias (lib. 5. p. 146, 147.) are
almost

an echo of the anecdote. The aliena pecunia reddenda of Corippus (lib. 2. 381.
&c.)

is not very honourable to Justinian's memory.

z See the history and character of John of Cappadocia in Procopius. (Persic.
lib.

1. c. 24, 25. lib. 2. c. 30. Vandal, lib. 1. c. 13. Anecdot. c. 2. 17. 22.)
The

aereement of the history and anecdotes is a mortal wound to the reputation of
the

prefeot.

xaxfc; —a forcible expression.

