CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 419

At the extreme point of Calabria, he touched with his

spear a column on the sea-shore of Rhegium,1 proclaiming

that ancient land mark to stand the immoveable boun­

dary of his kingdom.11

During a period of two hundred years, Italy was un- J^6*"1"

equally divided between the kingdom of the Lombards Ravenna,

and the exarchate of Ravenna. The offices and profes­

sions, which the jealousy of Constantine had separated,

were united by the indulgence of Justinian; and eighteen

successive exarchs were invested, in the decline of the em­

pire, with the full remains of civil, of military, and even

of ecclesiastical power. Their immediate jurisdiction,

which was afterward consecrated as the patrimony of St.

Peter, extended over the modern Romagna, the marshes

or valleys of Ferrara and Commachio,1 five maritime cities

from Rimini to Ancona, and a second, inland Pentapolis,

between the Adriatic coast and the hills of the Apennine.

Three subordinate provinces, of Rome, of Venice, and of

Naples, which were divided by hostile lands from the pa­

lace of Ravenna, acknowledged, both in peace and war,

the supremacy of the exarch. The dutchy of Rome ap­

pears to have included the Tuscan, Sabine, and Latin

conquests, of the first four hundred years of the city, and

the limits maybe distinctly traced along the coast, from

Civita Vecchia, to Terracina, and with the course of the

Tiber from Ameria and Narni to the port of Ostia. The

numerous islands from Grado to Chiozza, composed the

infant dominion of Venice; but the more accessible

'The Columns Rhegina, in the narrowest port of the Faro of Messina, one
hundred'

stadia from Rhegium itself, is frequently mentioned in ancient geography,
Cluver.

Ital. Antiq. torn. 2. p. 1395. Lucas Holslein. Annolat. ad Cluver. p. 301.
Wes-

aeling, Itinerar. p. 106.

k The Greek historians afford some faint hints of the wars of Italy.
(Menander, in

Excerpt. Legat. p. 124.126. Theophylact, lib. 3. c. 4.) The Latins are more
satisfac­

tory ; and especially Paul Warnefrid, (lib.3.13—34.)who had read the more
antient

histories of Secundus and Gregory of Tours. Baronius produces some letters of
the

popes, &co. and the times are measured by the accurate scale of Pagi and
Muratori.

1 The papal advocates,Zacagni and Fnntanini, might justly claim the Talleyor
mo­

rass of Commachio as a part of the exarchate. But the ambition of including
Mo-

dena, Reggio, Parma, and Placentia, has darkened a geographical question
somewhat

doubtful and obscure. Even Muratori, as the servant of the house of Este, is
not

free from partiality and prejudice.

