P. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 321

nate and people, were deposited in the Capitol :* and

some of the acts, as the Julian law against extortion,

surpassed the number of a hundred chapters.0 The de­

cemvirs had neglected to import the sanction of Zaleu-

cus, which so long maintained the integrity of his re­

public. A Locrian, who proposed any new law, stood

forth in the assembly of the people with a cord round

his neck, and if the law was rejected, the innovator was

instantly strangled.

The decemvirs had been named, and their tables were ^wsof

* the people.

approved, by an assembly of the centuries, in which

riches preponderated against numbers. To the first

class of Romans, the proprietors of one hundred thou­

sand pounds of copper,*1 ninety-eight votes were assigned,

and only ninety-five were left for the six inferior classes,

distributed according to their substance by the artful po­

licy of Servius. But the tribunes soon established a

more specious and popular maxim, that every citizen has

an equal right to enact the laws which he is bound to

obey. Instead of the centuries, they convened the

tribes; and the patricians, after an impotent struggle,

submitted to the decrees of an assembly, in which their

Votes were confounded with those of the meanest ple­

beians. Yet as long as the tribes successively passed

over narrow bridges," and gave their voices aloud, the

b Suetonius in Vespasiano, c. 8.

c Cicero ad Familiares, 8. 8.

* Dionysius, with Arbuthnot, and most of the moderns, (except Eisenschmidt de  
Ponderibus, &c. p. 137—140.) represent the one hundred thousand asses by ten

thousand Attic drachmae, or somewhat more than three hundred pounds sterling.

But their calculation can apply only to the latter times, when the as was
diminished

to one-twenty-fourth of its ancient weight: nor can I believe that in the
first ages,

'however destitute of the precious metals, a single ounce of silver could have
been

exchanged for seventy pounds of copper or brass. A more simple and rational
me­

thod is, to value the copper itself according to the present rate, and, after
comparing

the mint and the market price, the Roman and avoirdupois weight, the primitive
as

or Roman ponnd of copper may be appreciated at one English shilling, and the
one

hundred thousand asses of the first class amounted to five thousand pounds
sterling.

It will appear from the same reckoning, that an ox was sold at Rome for 5(. a
sheep

for 10s. and a quarter of wheat for 11.10s. (Festus, p. 330. edit. Dacier;
Plin. Hist.

Natur. 18. 4.) nor do I see any reason to reject these consequences, which
moderato

pur. ideas of the poverty of the first Romans.

, • Consult the common writers on the Roman Comitia, especially Sigonius and

Beaufort. Spauheim (de Pnestantia et Usu Numismatum, tom. 2. dissert. 10. p.
192,

shews, on a curious medal, the Cista, Pontes, Septa, Dirihitor, &o.

