CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 15

instruments of their victories, but of the missile weapons,

which they were too much inclined to neglect; ascl the

lively image of war was displayed in the daily exercise

and annual reviews of the Gothic cavalry. A firm though

gentle discipline imposed the habits of modesty, obe­

dience, and temperance; and the Goths were instructed

to spare the people, to reverence the laws, to understand

the duties of civil society, and to disclaim the barbarous

licence of judicial combat and private revenge.'

Among the barbarians of the west, the victory of The- pXyof

odoric had spread a general alarm. But as soon as it ap- 'fiisodoric.

peared that he was satisfied with conquest, and desirous

of peace, terror was changed into respect, and they sub­

mitted to a powerful mediation, which was uniformly

employed for the best purposes of reconciling their quar­

rels and civilizing their manners.11 The ambassadors

who resorted to Ravenna from the most distant countries

of Europe, admired his wisdom, magnificence,1 and cour­

tesy; and if he sometimes accepted either slaves or arms,

white horses or strange animals, the gift of a sun-dial, a

water-clock, or a musician, admonished even the princes

of Gaul, of the superior art and industry of his Italian

subjects. His domestic alliances,™ a wife, two daughters,

a sister, and a niece, united the family of Theodoric with

the kings of the Franks, the Burgundians, the Visigoths,

the Vandals, and the Thuringians; and contributed to

maintain the harmony, or at least the balance, of the

great republic of the west." It is difficult, in the dark

1 The view of the military establishment of the Goths in Italy, is collected
from

the Epistles of Cassiodorins. (Var. 1.24. 40. 3. 3. 24. 48. 4. 13,14. 5.
26,27. 8. 3.

4. 25.) They are illustrated by the learned Mascou. (Hist. of the Germans,
lib. 11.

40—44. annotation 14.)

k See the clearness and vigour of his negotiations in Ennodios (p. 1607.) and

Cassiodorins (Var. 3. 1—4. 4. 13 5. 43. 41.) who gives the different styles of

friendship, counsel, expostulation, &c.

1 Even of his table (Var. 6. 9.) and palace (7. 5.) The admiration of
strangers is

represented as the most rational motive to justify these vain expenses, and to
stimu­

late the diligence of the officers to whom those provinces were intrusted,

m See the public and private alliances of the Gothic monarch, with the
Burgundians,

(Var. 1. 45, 46.) with the Franks, (2. 40.) with the Thuringians, (4. 1.) and
with the

Vandals. (5. 1.) Rach of these epistles affords some curious knowledge of the
policy

and manners of the harharians,

"ilis political system may be observed in Cassiodorius, (Var. i. 1. 9.1.)
Jornandes,

