388 • DECLINE AND FALL [CHAV. XLIV.

\'. and Alexander of Diospolis, were dragged through the

streets of Constantinople, while their brethren were ad­

monished by the voice of a crier, to observe this awful

lesson, and not to pollute the sanctity of their character.

Perhaps these prelates were innocent. A sentence of

death and infamy was often founded on the slight and

suspicious evidence of a child or a servant; the guilt of

the green faction, of the rich, and of the enemies of

Theodora, was presumed by the judges, and paederasty

became the crime of those to whom no crime could be

imputed. A French philosopherp has dared to remark,

that whatever is secret must be doubtful, and that our na­

tural horror of vice may be abused as an engine of tyranny.

But the favourable persuasion of the same writer, that a

legislator may confide in the taste and reason of mankind,

is impeached by the unwelcome discovery of the antiquity

and extent of the disease.'

judgments The free citizens of Athens and Rome enjoyed, in all

people. criminal cases the invaluable privilege of being tried by

their country.1 1. The administration of justice is the

most ancient office of a prince: it was exercised by the

Roman kings, and abused by Tarquin; who alone, with­

out law or council, pronounced his arbitrary judgments.

The first consuls succeeded to this regal prerogative; but

the sacred right of appeal soon abolished the jurisdiction

of the magistrates, and all public causes were decided by

■ P Montesquieu, Esprit des Loix, lib. 12. c. 6. That eloquent philosopher
conci­

liates the rights of liberty and of nature, which should never be placed in
opposition

to each other. ',

1 For the corruption of Palestine, two thousand years before the Christian
era, see

the history and laws of Moses. Ancient Gaul is stigmatized by Diodorus
Sicuius,

(tom.,1. lib. 5. p. 356.) China by the Mahometan and Christian travellers*
(Ancisnt

Relations of India and China, p. 34. translated by Renaudot, and his hitter
critic, the

Pere Premare, Lettres Edinantes, tom. 19. p. 435.)and native America by the
Spanish

historians. (Garcillasso de la Vega, lib. 3. c. 13. Rycaut's translation, and
Dic-

tionaire de Bayle, tom. 3. p. 88.) I believe, and hope, that the negroes, in
their own

country, were exempt from this moral pestilence.

''Hie important subject of'the public questions and judgments at Rome is ex­

plained with much learning, and in a classic style, by Charles Sigonius, (lib.
3. de

Judiciis, in Opp. tom. 3. 679—864.) and a good abridgment may be found in the
Re-

pnblique Romaine of Beaufort. (tom. 2. lib. 5. p. 1—121.) Those who wish for
more

abstruse law, may study Noodt, (de Jurisdictione et Imperio Libri duo, tom. 1.
p. 93

—)34.)Heineccius, (ad Pandect. lib. 1. et 2. ad Ihstitut. lib. 4. tit. 17.
Element, ad

Antiquitat.) and Gravina. (Opp. 230—2a1.) •'

