DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV

dialogues, are the work of a man who was second in eru­

dition to none of his contemporaries:" his birth and abi­

lities had raised him to the office of prefect of the city,

and he enjoyed the merit of renouncing the pomp and

vanities of this world. His. ample patrimony was dedi­

cated to the foundation of seven monasteries/ one in

■Home/ and six in Sicily : and it was the wish of Gregory

that he might be unknown in this life, and glorious only

in the next. Yet his devotion, and it might be sincere,

pursued the path which would have been chosen by a

crafty and ambitious statesman. The talents of Gregory,

and the splendour which accompanied his retreat, ren­

dered him dear and useful to the church'; and implicit

.obedience has been always inculcated as the first duty of

''a^monk. As soon as he had received the character of

deacon, Gregory was sent to reside at the Byzantine

court, the nuncio or minister of the apostolic see; and

he boldly assumed, in the name of St. Peter, a tone of

independent dignity, which would have been criminal

.and dangerous in. the most illustrious layman of the em­

pire. He returned to Rome with a just increase of repu­

tation, and after a short exercise of the monastic virtues,

-he was dragged from the cloister to the papal throne, by  
the unanimous voice of the clergy, the senate, and the

people. He alone resisted, or seemed to resist, his own

elevation; and his humble petition, that Maurice would

be pleased to reject the choice of the Romans, could only

■serve to exalt his character in the eyes of the emperor

.and the public. When the fatal mandate was proclaimed,

u Disciplines vero liberalibus, hoc est grammatica, rbetoricaj dialectica, ita
a pue-

ro est Institutus, ut quamvis eo tempore flbrerent adbac Romae studia
literarum, fa­

tten nulii in urbe ipsa secundus putaretur. Panl. Diaeon. in Vit. S. Gregor.
c. 2.

1 The Benedictines (Vit. Greg. lib. 1. p. 205—208.) labour to reduce the
monas­

teries of Gregory within the rule of their own order; but as the questionis
confessed

to be doubtfulf it is clear that these powerful monks are in the wrong. See
Butler's

Lives of the Saints, vol. 3. p, 145. a work of merit; the sense and learning
belong to

the author—his prejudices are those of his profession.

'J Monasterium Gregorianum in ejusdtm Beati Gregorii frdibus ad clivum Scauri

prope ecclesiam S. S. Johnnnis et Pauli in honorem St. Andreae. (John in ViU
Greg,

lib. 1. c. 6. Greg. lib. 7. epist. 13.) This house and monastery were situate
on the

side of the Celian hill which fronts the Palatine; they are now occupied by
the Ca-

moldoli ; San Gregorio triumphs, and St. Andrew has retired to a small chapel.
Nar­

dit, Rema Antica, lib. 3. c. 6. p. 100. Descrizzione di Roma, tom 1. p.
442—446.

