CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 18J

guilt of Constantine was no longer remembered; the

despair and death of that valiant officer were secretly im­

puted to the revenge of Antonina; and each of his col­

leagues, conscious of the same rapine, was apprehensive

of the same fate. The fear of a common enemy sus­

pended the effects of their envy and discontent: but in

the confidence of approaching victory, they instigated a

powerful rival to oppose the conqueror of Rome and

Africa. From the domestic service of the palace, and The eunuch

the administration of the private revenue, Narses the eu­

nuch was suddenly exalted to the head of an army; and

the spirit of a hero, who afterward equalled the merit

and glory of Belisarius, served only to perplex the oper­

ations of the Gothic war. To his prudent counsels, the

relief of Rimini was ascribed by the leaders of the discon­

tented faction, who exhorted Narses to assume an inde­

pendent and separate command. The epistle of Justi- .

nian had indeed enjoined his obedience to the general;

but the dangerous exception, " as far as may be advan­

tageous to the public service," reserved some freedom of

judgment to the discreet favourite,' who had so lately de­

parted from the sacred and familiar conversation of his

sovereign. In the exercise of this doubtful right, the

eunuch perpetually dissented from the opinions of Beli­

sarius; and, after yielding with reluctance to the siege of

Urbino, he deserted his colleague in the night, and

marched away to the conquest of the iEmilian province.

The fierce and formidable bands of the Heruli were at­

tached to the person of Narses ;d ten thousand Romans

and confederates were persuaded to march under his

banners; every malecontent embraced the fair opportu­

nity of revenging his private or imaginary wrongs; and

or caution; in the Anecdotes, (c. 7.) with malevolence or freedom; but
Marcellinus,

or rather his continuator, (in Chron.) casts a shade of premeditated
assassination over

the death of Constantine. He had performed good service at Rome and Spoleto;

(Prooop. Gotb. lib. 1. o. 7. 14.) but Alemannus confounds him with a
Constantianus

comes stabuli.

* They refused to serve after his departure; sold their captives and cattle to the  
Goths; and swore never to fight against them. Procopitis introduces a curious
di­

gression on the manners and adventures of this wandering nation, a part of
whom

finally emigrated to Thtile or Scandinavia. (Goth. lib. 2. e. 14, IS.)-'

