330 DECLINE.A=Nl> FALL [CHAP. XLIVi

the idiom and manners of the Romans, rendered the

style of the twelve tables less familiar to each rising ge-i

neration, and the doubtful passages were imperfectly ex­

plained by the study of legal antiquarians. ' To define the

ambiguities, to circumscribe the latitude, to apply the

principles, to extend the consequences, to reconcile the

real or apparent contradictions, was a much nobler and

more important task; and the province of legislation

was silently invaded by the expounders of aneient sta­

tutes. Their subtle interpretations concurred with the

equity of the prastor, to reform the tyranny of the darker

ages: however strange or intricate the means, it was the

aim of artificial jurisprudence to restore the simple die-"

tates of nature and reason, and the skill of private citizens

was usefully employed to undermine the public instiiu-f

tions of their country. The revolution of almost one

thousand years, from the twelve tables to the reign of

Justinian, may be divided into three periods almost equal

in duration, and distinguished from each other by the

mode of instruction and the character of the civilians.8

Pride and ignorance contributed, during the first period,

to confine within narrow limits the science of the Roman

The first law. On the public days of market or assembly, the

a^ilc. masters of the art were seen walking in the Forum, ready

303—648. tG impart the needful advice to the meanest of their feh

low-citizens, from whose votes, on a future occasion, they

might solicit a grateful return. As their years and ho-;

nours increased, they seated themselves at home on a

chair or throne, to expect with patient gravity the visits

B The series of the civil lawyers is deduced by Pomponins. (de Origine Juris
Pan^

dect. lib. 1. tit. 2.) The moderns have discussed, with learning and
criticism, this

branch of literary history; and among these I have chiefly been guided by
Gravina,

(p. 41—79.) and Hoineccius. (Hist. J. R. no. 113—351.) Cicero, more especially

in his books de Oratore, de Claris Oratoribus, de Legibus, and the Clavis
Ciceronian

naof-Ernesti, (under the names of Mucius, &c.) afford much genuine and
pleasing-In­

formation. Horace often alludes to the morning labours of the civilians.
(Serm. 1. 1.'

10. Epist. 2. 4. 103, &c.

Agricolam landat juris legumque peritus «

Sub galli cautum, consultor uhi ostia pulsat.

Roman dulce diu fuit et solemne, reelo'sa •'

Mane domo vigilare, clienti promere jura. •'

