CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

form nature. The person and property of an orphan

must always be trusted to the custody of some discreet

friend. If the deceased father had not signified his

choice, the agnats, or paternal kindred of the nearest

degree, were compelled to act as the natural guardians:

the Athenians were apprehensive of exposing the infant

to the power of those most interested in his death; but

an axiom of Roman jurisprudence has pronounced, that

the charge of tutelage should constantly attend the emo­

lument of succession. If the choice of the father, and

the line of consanguinity, afforded no efficient guardian,

the failure was supplied by the nomination of the praetor

of the city, or the president of the province. But the

person whom they named to this public office might be

legally excused by insanity or blindness, by ignorance or

inability, by previous enmity or adverse interest, by the

number of children or guardianships with which he was

already burdened, and by the immunities which were

granted to the useful labours of magistrates, lawyers, phy­

sicians, and professors. Till the infant could speak and

think, he was represented by the tutor, whose authority

was finally determined by the age of puberty. Without

his consent, no act of the pupil could bind himself to his

own prejudice, though it might oblige others for his per­

sonal benefit. It is needless to observe, that the. tutor

often gave security, and always rendered an account; and

that the want of diligence or integrity exposed him to

a civil and almost criminal action for the violation of his

sacred trust. The age of puberty had been rashly fixed

by the civilians, at fourteen; but as the faculties of the

mind ripen more slowly than those of the body, a cura­

tor was interposed to guard the fortunes of the Roman

youth from his own inexperience and headstrong pas­

sions. Such a trustee had been first instituted by the

prastor, to "save a family from the blind havoc of a prodi­

gal or a madman; and the minor was compelled by the

laws, to solicit the same protection, to give validity to

2 B 2

