CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

arid emoluments, his generals, magistrates, and senators;

and his precarious indulgence Communicated some rays

of their glory to the persons of their wives and children.

But in the eye of the law, all Roman citizens were equal,

and all subjects of the empire were citizens of Rome.

That inestimable character was degraded to an obsolete

and empty name. The voice of a Roman could no lon­

ger enact his laws, or create the annual ministers of his

power; his constitutional rights might have checked the

arbitrary-will of a master; and the bold adventurer from

Germany or Arabia was admitted, with equal favour, ti>

the civil and military command, which the citizen alone

had been once entitled to assume over the conquests"of

his fathers. The first Cassars had scrupulously guarded

the distinction of ingenuous, and servile birth, which Was

decided by the condition of the mother; and the candour

of the laws was satisfied, if her freedom could be ascer­

tained during a single moment between the conception

and the delivery. The slaves, who were liberated by a

generous'master immediately entered into the middle

class of libertines or freedmen: but they could never be

enfranchised from the duties of obedience and gratitude:

whatever were the fruits of their industry, their patron

and his family inherited the third part; or even the whole

of their fortune, if they died without children and with­

out a testament. Justinian respected the rights of pa­

trons; but his indulgence removed the badge of disgrace

from the two inferior orders of freedmen: whoever

ceased to be a slave, obtained without reserve or delay,

the station of a citizen; and at length the dignity of an

ingenuous birth, which nature had refused, was created,

or supposed, by the omnipotence of the emperor. What­

ever restraints of age, or forms, or numbers, had been

formerly introduced to check the abuse of manumissions^

and the too rapid increase of vile and indigent Romans,

he'finally abolished; and the spirit of his laws promoted

the extinction of domestic servitude. Yet the eastern

