274 DECEINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII.

he had signified to the ambassadors of Belisarius, his in­

tention of sparing the city, he stationed an army at the

distance of one hundred and twenty furlongs, to observe

the motions of the Roman general. With the remain­

der of his forces, he marched into Lucania and Apulia,

and occupied, on the summit of mount Garganus,0 one

of the camps of Hannibal.p The senators were dragged

in his train, and afterward confined in the fortresses of

Campania: the citizens, with their wives and children,

were dispersed in exile; and during forty days Rome

was abandoned to desolate and dreary solitude.q

Recovered The loss of Rome was speedily retrieved by an action,

byBelisa- , . , ,. / J . . .

rius, to which, according to the event, the public opinion

Febraaryf' would apply the names of rashness or heroism. After

the departure of Totila, the Roman general sallied from

the port at the head of a thousand horse, cut in pieces

the enemy who opposed his progress, and visited with

pity and reverence the vacant space of the eternal city.

Resolved to maintain a station so conspicuous in the eyes

of mankind, he summoned the greatest part of his troops

to the standard which he erected on the Capitol: the

old inhabitants were recalled by the love of their country

and the hopes of food; and the keys of Rome were sent

a second time to the emperor Justinian. The walls, as

far as they had been demolished by the Goths, were re­

paired with rude and dissimilar materials; the ditch was

restored; iron spikes' were profusely scattered in the

° Mount Garganus, now Monte St. Angelo, in the kingdom of Naples, runs three

hundred stadia into the Adriatic sea, (Strab. lib. 6. p. 436.) and in the
darker ages

was illustrated by the apparition, miracles, and church of St. Michael the
archangel.

Horace, a native of Apulia or Lucania, had seen the elms and oaks of Garganns
la­

bouring and bellowing with the north wind that blew on that lofty coast.
(Cann.2. 9.

Epist. 2. 1. 201.)

P I cannot ascertain this particular camp of Hannibal; but the Punic quarters

were long and often in the neighbourhood of Arpi. (T. Liv. 22. 9.12; 24. 3.
&c.)

1 Totila .... Romam ingreditur acevertit muros domos aliquantas igni

comburens, ac omnes Romanorum res in prsedam accepit, hos ipsos Romanos in
Cam-

paniam captivos abduxit. Post quam devastationem, xl aut amplius dies, Roma
fuit

ita desolata, ut nemo ibi hominura, nisi (nulla ?) bestise morarentur.
(Marcellin. in

Chron. p. 54.)

r The tribuli are small engines with four spikes, one fixed in the ground, the

three others erect or adverse. (Procopins, Gothic, lib. 3. c. 24. Just.
Lipsius, Po-

liorcetosi', lib. 5. c. 3.) The metaphor was borrowed from the tribuli, (land
caltrops)

