320 • DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV.

Their eh*- Whatever might be the origin or the merit of the

influence, twelve tables," they obtained among the Romans that

blind and partial reverence which the lawyers of every

country delight to bestow on their municipal institu­

tions. The study is recommended by Cicero" as equally

pleasant and instructive. {< They amuse the mind by

the remembrance of old words and the portrait of an­

cient manners; they inculcate the soundest principles of

government and morals; and I am not afraid to affirm,

that the brief composition of the decemvirs surpasses in

genuine value the libraries of Grecian philosophy. How

admirable (says Tully, with honest or affected prejudice)

is the wisdom of our ancestors! We alone are the mas­

ters of civil prudence, and our superiority is the more

Conspicuous, if we deign to cast our eyes on the rude and

almost ridiculous jurisprudence of Dracon, of Solon, and

pf Lycurgus," The twelve tables were committed to the

memory of the young, and the meditation of the old;

they were transcribed and illustrated with learned dili­

gence: they had escaped the flames of the Gauls, they

subsisted in the age of Justinian, and their subsequent

loss has been imperfectly restored by the labours of mo­

dern critics.7 But although these venerable monuments

were considered as the rule of right, and the fountain of

justice," they were overwhelmed by the weight and va­

riety of new laws, which, at the end of five centuries, be­

came a grievance more intolerable than the vices of the

•city." Three thousand brass plates, the acts of the se-

"Bjo^sm; xeti a«£irr«; is the praise of Diodoros, (tom. 1. lib. 12. p. 494.)
which

may be fairly translated by the eleganti atque absoluta breyitate verborum of
Aulas

1 Gellius. (Noct. Attic. 21.1.)

.- * Listen to Cicero, (de Legibus, 2. 23.) and his representative Crassus.
(de Ora-

1 tore, 1. 43, 44.)

y See Heineccius, (Hist. J. R. no. 29—33.) I have followed the restoration of

the twelve tables by Gravina (Origines J. C. p. 280—307.) and Terasson. (Hist,
de

la Jurisprudence Romaine, p. 94-T-205.)

1 Finis aequi juris. (Tacit. Annal. 3. 27.) Fons omnia public! et privati
juris. (T,

[Liv. 3. 34.)

a De principiis juris, et quibus modis ad hanc multitadinem infimtam ac
yarietatem

legam perventum sit altius disseram. (Tacit. Annal. 3. 25). This deep
disquisition

'fills only two pages, but they are the pages of Tacitus. With equal sense,
but with

'jess energy, Livy (3. 34.) had complained, in hac immeuso aliarmu super alias
aceri

yatarum Iegum cumulii, &c.

