142 DECLINE AND 'frAtfL [CHAP. XL1.

that he might sooner compel His prisoner to embrace a

resolution advantageous to the Romans, but salutary td

himself. The obstinacy of Gelimer at length yielded to

reason and necessity; the solemn assurances of Safety

and honourable treatment were ratified in the emperor s

name, by the ambassador of Belisarius; and the king of

the Vandals descended from ^he friOuntain. The first

public interview was in one of the suburbs of Carthage,

and when the royal captive accosted his conqueror, 'he

burst into a fit of laughter. The crowd might naturally

believe, that extreme grief had deprived Gelimer off nis

senses; but in this mournful State, unseasonable mirth

insinuated to more intelligent observers, that the vain

and transitory scenes of human greatness are unworthy

of a serious thought.11

HomYof Their contempt was soon justified by a new example

Bdisarius. of a vulgar truth; that flattery adheres to power, and

Autumn. ' envy to superior merit. The chiefs of the Roman army

presumed to think themselves the rivajs of a hero. Their

private dispatches maliciously affirmed,:that the conque­

ror of Africa, strong in his reputation and the public

love, conspiredto seat himself on the throne of the Van­

dals. Justinian listened with tOo patient an ear; and

his silence was the result of jealousy rather than of con­

fidence. An honourable alternative, of remaining in

the province, or of returning to the capital, was indeed

"submitted to'the discretion of Belisarius; but he wisely

concluded, from intercepted letters, and the knowledge

of his sovereign's temper, that he must either resign his

head, erect his standard, or confound his enemies by his

presence and submission. Innocence and courage de­

cided, his choice: his guards, captives, and treasures,

were diligently embarked; and so prosperous was the

navigation, that his arrival at Constantinople preceded

11 Herodotus elegantly describes the strange effects of grief in another royal
cap­

tive, Psammetichus of Kgypt, who wept at the lesser, and was silent at the
greatest

of his calamities, (lib. 3. c. 14.) Tn the interview of Paulus jEmilius and
Perses,

Belisarius might study his part: but it is probable that he never read cither
Livy br

Plutarch; and it is certain that his generosity did not need a tutor.

