2\1 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLU.

Cal mucks,0 which nourish the largest sheep and oxen in

the world. The soil is fruitful, and the climate mild

and temperate: the happy region was ignorant of earth­

quake and pestilence; the emperor's throne was turned

towards the east, and a golden wolf on the top of a spear,

seemed to guard the entrance of his tent. One of the

successors of Bertezena was tempted by the luxury and

superstition of China; but his design of building cities

and temples was defeated by the simple wisdom of a

barbarian counsellor. "The Turks (he said) are not

equal in number to one-hundredth part of the inhabitants

of China. If we balance their power, and elude their

armies, it is because we wander without any fixed habita­

tions, in the exercise of war and hunting. Are we strong?

we advance and conquer: are we feeble? we retire and

are concealed. Should the Turks confine themselves

within the walls of cities, the loss of a battle would be

the destruction of their empire. The Bonzes preach

only patience, humility, and the renunciation of the

world. Such, O king! is not the religion of heroes."

They entertained with less reluctance the doctrines of

■ Zoroaster; but the greatest part of the nation acquiesced,

without inquiry, in the opinions, or rather in the prac­

tice, of their ancestors. The honours of sacrifice were

reserved for the supreme Deity; they acknowledged, in

■rude hymns, their obligations to the air, the fire, the

water, and the earth ; and their priests derived some pro­

fit from the art of divination. Their unwritten laws

were rigorous and impartial: theft was punished by a

"tenfold restitution: adultery, treason, and murder, with.

[ death: and no chastisement could be inflicted too severe

for the rare and inexpiable guilt of cowardice. As the

subject nations marched under the standard of the

Turks, their cavalry, both men and horses, were proudly

c The country of the Turks, now of the Calmucks, is well described in the
Gene­

alogical History, p. 521—562. The curious notes of the French translator are
en­

larged and digested in the second volume of the lioglish version.

