CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

wife of Dardanus, was unable to support the ruin of her

country; she abandoned the dances of her sister orbs,

fled from the zodiac to the north pole, and obtained,

from her dishevelled locks, the name of the comet. The

third period expires in the year 618, a date that exactly

agrees with the tremendous comet of the Sibyll, and per­

haps of Pliny, which arose in the west two generations

before the reign of Cyrus. The fourth apparition, forty-

four years before the birth of Christ, is of all others the

most splendid and important. After the death of Caesar,

a long-haired star was conspicuous to Rome and to the

nations, during the games which were exhibited by young

Octavian, in honour of Venus and his uncle. The vul­

gar opinion, that it conveyed to heaven the divine soul of

the dictator, was cherished and consecrated by the piety

of a statesman: while his secret superstition referred the

comet to the glory of his own times.k Thejifth visit has

already been ascribed to the fifth year of Justinian, which

coincides with the five hundred and thirty-first of the

Christian era. And it may deserve notice, that in this,

as in the preceding instance, the comet was followed,

though at a longer interval, by a remarkable paleness of

the sun. The sixth return, in the year 1100", is record-,

ed by the chronicles of Europe and China; and in the

first fervour of the Crusades, the Christians and the Ma->

hometans might surmise, with equal reason, that it por->

tended the destruction of the infidels. The seventh

phenomenon of 1680 was presented to the eyes of an

enlightened age.1 The philosophy of Bayle dispelled a

prejudice which Milton's muse had so recently adorned,

* Pliny (Hist. Nat. 2. 23.) has transcribed the original memorial of Augustus,  
Mairan, in his most ingenious letters to the P. Parennin, missionary in China,
re­

moves the games and the comet of September, from the year 44 to the year 43,
before

the Christian era; hat I am not totally subdued by the criticism of the
astronomer,

(Opuscules, p. 275—351.)

1 This last comet was visible in the month of December, 1680. Bayle, who began

bis Peusies sur )e Comete in January, 1681, (CEnvres, tom. 3.) was forced to
argue

that a supernatural comet would have confirmed the ancients in their idolatry.
Ber­

noulli (see his Elo^e, in Fontenelle, tom. 5. p. 99.) was forced to allow that
the tail,

though sot the bead, vras a sign of the wrath of Cod.

