CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

jects had traversed the frozen rivers of Scythia, and who

now covered the banks of the Danube with innumerable

tents. The late emperor had cultivated, with annual and

costly gifts, the friendship of a grateful monarch, and the

enemies of Rome had respected the allies of the Avars,

The same prudence would instruct the nephew of Justi­

nian to imitate the liberality of his uncle, and to purchase

the blessings of peace from an invincible people, who de­

lighted and excelled in the exercise of war. The reply

of the emperor was delivered in the same strain of haugh­

ty defiance, and he derived his confidence from the God

of the Christians, the ancient glory of Rome, and the re­

cent triumphs of Justinian. "The empire (said he)

abounds with men and horses, and arms sufficient to de­

fend our frontiers, and to chastise the barbarians. You

offer aid, you threaten hostilities: we despise your enmi­

ty and your aid. The conquerors of the Avars solicit

our alliance; shall we dread their fugitives and exiles?

The bounty of our uncle was granted to your misery, to

your humble prayers. From us you shall receive a more

important obligation, the knowledge of your own weak­

ness. Retire from our presence; the lives of ambassa­

dors are safe; and if you return to implore our pardon,

perhaps you will taste of our benevolence."f On the re­

port of his ambassadors, the chagan was awed by the ap­

parent firmness of a Roman emperor, of whose character

and resources he was ignorant. Instead of executing

his threats against the eastern empire, he marched into

e Corippus, lib. 3. 390. The unquestionable sense relates to tho Turks, the
con­

querors of the .Avars; but the word scultor has no apparent meaning, and the
sole

MS. of Corippus, from whence the first edition (1581, apnd Plantin) was
printed, is

no longer visible. The last editor, Feggini of Rome, has inserted the
conjectural

emendation of soldan: but the proofs of Ducange (Joinville, Dissert. 16. p.
238—

2-10.) for the early use of this title among the Turks and Persians, are weak
or amhi­

guous:' And I must inclipe to the authority of d'Herbelot, (liibliotheque
Orient.

p. 8'25.) who ascribes the word to the Arahic and Chaldean tongues, and the
date to

the beginning of the eleventh century, when it was bestowed by the khalif of
Bagdad

on Mahmud prince of Gazna, and conqueror of India.

f For these characteristic speeches, compare the verse of Corippus, (lib. 8.
251—

401.) with the prose of Menander, (Excerpt. Legation. p. 102, 103.) Their
diver­

sity proves that they did not copy each other; their resemblance, that they
drciy

from a common original..

