240 ROMAN EMPIRE.

sence of Otho the great. As John XII. had renounced

the dress and decencies of his profession, the soldier

may not perhaps be dishonoured by the wine which he

drank, the blood that he spilt, the flames that he kin­

dled, or the licentious pursuits of gaming and hunting.

His open simony might be the consequence of distress:

and his blasphemous invocation of Jupiter and Venus,

if it be true, could not possibly be serious. But we

read with some surprise, that the worthy grandson of

Marozia lived in public adultery with the matrons of

Rome; that the Lateran palace was turned into a

school for prostitution, and that his rapes of virgins

and widows had deterred the female pilgrims from vi­

siting the tomb of St. Peter, lest, in the devout act they

should be violated by his successor." The Protestants

have dwelt with malicious pleasure on these characters

of antichrist; but to a philosophic eye, the vices of

the clergy are far less dangerous than their virtues.

After a long series of scandal, the apostolic see

Reforms- . - , i i i i •'

tion and was reformed and exalted by the austerity and

ihe'church, zeal of Gregory VII. That ambitious monk

A.D.1073. devoted his life to the execution of two pro­

jects. I. To fix in the college of cardinals the

freedom and independence of election, and for ever to

abolish the right or usurpation of the emperors and the

Roman people. II. To bestow and resume the wes­

tern empire as a fief or benefice' of the church, and to

extend his temporal dominion over kings and kingdoms

of the earth. After a contest of fifty years, the first of

these designs was accomplished by the firm support of

'Lateranense palatium .... proatibulum meretricum Testis omnium

gentium, praterquam Romanorum, absentia mulierum, qua sanctorum apostolo •

nun limina orandi gratia timent visere, cum nonnullas ante dies paucos, hunc
au-

dierint conjugatas viduas, virgines vi oppressisse. (Lautprand, Hist. lib. 6.
c. 6.

p. 471. See the whole affair of John XII. p. 471—i76.)

'A new example of the mischief of equivocation is the beneficium (Ducange.

torn. 1. p. 617, &c.) which the pope conferred on the emperor Frederic I.
since

the Latin word may signify either a legal fief, or a simple favour, an
obligation,

(we want the word bivnfait.) See Schmid, Hist, des Allemands, torn. 3. p. 398

—408. Pfeflel, Abrege Chronologique, torn. 1. p. 329. 296. 317. 324. 420. 43O,

500. 505. 509, &c.

