ROMAN EMPIRE.

Ruin of the Count Julian had plunged so deep into guilt

nwch'0."10 an^ infamy, that his only hope was in the ruin

A. D. 71L Of his country. 'After the battle of Xeres he re­

commended the most effectual measures to the victorious

Saracen. "The king of the Goths is slain; their princes

are fled before you, the army is routed, the nation is as­

tonished. Secure with sufficient detachments the cities

of Boetica; but in person, and without delay, march to

the royal city of Toledo, and allow not the distracted

Christians either time or tranquillity for the election of

a new monarch." Tarik listened to his advice. A Ro­

man. captive and proselyte, who had been enfranchised

by the caliph himself, assaulted Cordova with seven

hundred horse; he swam' the river, surprised the townj

and drove the Christians into the great church, where

they defended themselves above three months. Ano­

ther detachment reduced the sea-coast of Bcetica, which

in the last period of the Moorish power, has comprised

in a narrow space the populous kingdom of Grenada.

The march of Tarik from the Ba.tis to theTagus,q was di­

rected through the Sierra Morena, that separates Anda­

lusia and Castile, till he appeared in arms under the walls

of Toledo/ The most zealous of the Catholics had es­

caped with the relics of their saints; and if the gates

were shut it was only till the victor had subscribed a

fair and reasonable capitulation. The voluntary exiles

were allowed to depart with their effects; seven churches

were appropriated to the Christian worship; the arch­

bishop and his clergy were at liberty to exercise their

functions, the monks to practise or neglect their penance:

and the Goths and Romans were left in. all civil and

11liB direct road from Cordiiba to Toledo was measured by Mr. Swinburne's

mulee in seventy-two hours and a half; but a larger computation must be
adopted

for the slow and devious march of an army. The Arabs traversed the province of

La Mancha, which the pen of Cervantes has transformed into classic ground to
the

reader of every nation.

'The antiquities of Toledo, Urbi Parta in the Punic wan, Urbt Rtgia in the
Birti

century.are briefly described by Nonins. (Hispanla.c. 59. p. 181—186.) He bor­

rows from Roderic the fatalt palatiirm of Moorish portraits; bat modestly
iosintuite*

that it was no more than a Roman amphitheatre.

