CHAP. LI. 415

phet; but we are desirous of peace, and cheerfully submit

to pay tribute and obedience to his temporal successors. The

tribute was ascertained at two pieces of gold for the head

of every Christian: but old men, monks, women, and

children, of both sexes, under sixteen years of age, were

exempted from this personal assessment; the Copts

above and below Memphis swore allegiance to the caliph,

and promised a hospitable entertainment of three days to

every Mussulman who should travel through their coun­

try. By this charter of security, the ecclesiastical and

civil tyranny of the Melchites was destroyed :r the ana­

themas of St. Cyril were thundered from every pulpit;

and the sacred edifices, with the patrimony of the church,

were restored to the national communion of the Jacobites,

who enjoyed without moderation the moment of triumph

and revenge. At the pressing summons of Amrou, their

patriarch Benjamin emerged from his desert; and, after

the first interview, the courteous Arab affected to declare,

that he had never conversed with a Christian priest of

more innocent manners and a more venerable aspect*

In the march from Memphis to Alexandria, the lieutenant

of Omar intrusted his safety to the zeal and gratitude of

the Egyptians: the roads and bridges were diligently

repaired; and in every step of his progress, he could

depend on a constant supply of provisions and intelli­

gence. The Greeks of Egypt, whose numbers could

scarcely equal a tenth of the natives, were overwhelmed

by the universal defection; they had ever been hated,

they were no longer feared: the magistrate fled from

his tribunal, the bishop from his altar; and the distant

garrisons were surprised or starved by the surrounding

r The prefecture of Egypt, and the conduct of the war, had been trusted by I
!<•-

radius to the patriarch Cyrus. (Theophan.p. 380, 281.) "In Spain," (said

James II.) do you not consult your priests r" "We do (replied the Catholic am­

bassador), and our affairs succeed accordingly." I know not how to relate the
plans

of Cyrus, of paying tribute without impairing the revenue, and of converting
Omar

by his marriage with the emperor's daughter. (Nicephor. Breviar. p. 17,18.)

• See the life of Benjamin, in Kenaudot, (Hist. Patriarch. Alexandrin. p. 156—

172.) who has enriched the conquest of Egypt with some facts from the Arabic

text of Severus the Jacobite historian.

