432 ROMAN EMPIRE.

thousand of the natives might assemble in arms; but the

number of three hundred and sixty towns is incompatible

with the ignorance or decay of husbandry;' and a cir­

cumference of three leagues will not be justified by the

ruins of Erbe or Lambesa, the ancient metropolis of that

inland country. As we approach the sea-coast, the well-

known cities of Bugiak and Tangier1 define the more cer­

tain limits of the Saracen victories. A remnant of trade

still adheres to the commodious harbour of Bugia, which,

in a more prosperous age, is said to have contained about

twenty thousand houses; and the plenty of iron which

is dug from the adjacent mountains might have supplied

a braver people with the instruments of defence. The

remote position and venerable antiquity of Tingi, or

Tangier, have been decorated by the Greek and Arabian

fables; but the figurative expressions of the latter, that

the walls were constructed of brass, and that the roofs

were covered with gold and silver, may be interpreted as

the emblems of strength and opulence. The province

of Mauritania Tingitana, ™ which assumed the name of

the capital, had been imperfectly discovered and settled

by the Romans; the five colonies were confined to a nar­

row pale, and the more southern parts were seldom ex­

plored except by the agents of luxury, who searched the

forests for ivory and the citron-wood," and the shores of

1 See Novairi (apud Otter, p. 118.) Leo Africanus (fol. 81, wjo), who reckons

only cinque citta e infinite casal; Marmol, (Description de 1'Afrique, torn.
3. p. 33.)

and Shaw. (Travels, p. 57. 65—68.)

k Leo Africanus, fol. 58. verso, 59. recto. Marmol, torn. 2. p. 415. Shaw,

p. 43.

1 Leo African, fol. 52. Marmol, torn. 2. p. 228.

m Regio ignobilis, et vix quicquam illustre sortita, parvis oppidis habitatur,
parva

flumina emittit, solo quam viris melior, et segnitie gentis obscura. Pomponins

Mela, 1. 5.3.10. Mela deserves the more credit, since his own Phoenician an­

cestors had migrated from Tingitana to Spain. (See, in 2. 6. a passage of that

geographer so cruelly tortured by Salmasius, Isaac Vossina, and the moat
virulent

of critics, James Gronovius.) He lived at the time of the final reduction of
that

country by the emperor Claudius; yet almost thirty years afterward, Pliny
(Hist.

Nat. 5. 1.) complains of his authors, too lazy to inquire, too proud to
confess their

ignorance of that wild and remote province.

"The foolish fashion of this citron-wood prevailed at Rome among the men, as

much as the taste for pearls among the women. A round board or table, foor or

five feet in diameter, sold for the price of an estate (latifundii tazatione),
eight,

ten, or twelve thousand pounds, sterling. (Plin. Hist. Natur. 13. 29.) 1
conceive

that I must not confound the tree citrui with that of the fruit cirrum. But I
am

not botanist enough to define the former (it is like the wild cypress) by the
vulgar

