CHAP. L. -295

violate the harmony of nature; that a creed unclouded

with mystery may be excused from miracles; and that

the sword of Mahomet was not less potent than the rod

of Moses.

Precepts The polytheist is oppressed and distracted by

met— ° the variety of superstition: a thousand rites of

fasting Egyptian origin were interwoven with the es-

ala,*- sence of the Mosaic law and the spirit of the gos­

pel had evaporated in the pageantry of the church. The

prophet of Mecca was tempted by prejudice, or policy,

or patriotism, to sanctify the rites of the Arabians, and

the custom of visiting the holy stone of the Caaba. But

the precepts of Mahomet himself inculcate a more simple

and rational piety: prayer, fasting, and alms, are the re­

ligious duties of a Mussulman; and he is encouraged to

hope, that prayer will carry him halfway to God, fasting-

will bring him to the door of his palace, and alms will

gain him admittance.' I. According to the tradition of

the nocturnal journey, the apostle, in his persona! con­

ference with the Deity, was commanded to. impose on

his disciples the daily obligation of fifty prayers. By the

advice of Moses, he applied for an alleviation of this in­

tolerable burden; the number was gradually reduced to

five; without any dispensation of business or pleasure,

or time or place, the devotion of the faithful is repeated

at day-break, at noon, in the afternoon, in the evening,

and at the first watch of the night; and, in the present

decay of religious fervour, our travellers are edified by

the profound humility and attention of the Turks and

Persians. Cleanliness is the key of prayer: the frequent

lustration of the hands, the face, and the body, which

1 The most authentic account of these precepts, pilgrimage, prayer, fasting,
alms,

and ablutions, is extracted from the Persian ami Arabian theologians by
Maracci.

(Prodrorn. part 4. p. 9—24.) Reland, (in his excellent treatise de Keligiooe
Mo-

hammedici, Uttecht, 1717, p. 67—1X3.) and Chardin. (Voyages en Perse* tarn. 4.

p. 47—195*) Maracci is a partial accuser; bat the jeweller, Chardin, had the

eyes of a philosopher; and Rotund, a judicious student, had travelled over the
east

in his closet at Utrecht. The fourteenth letter of Tournefort (Voyage du
Levant,

torn. 2. p. 325—360, in octavo) describes what he had seen of the religion of
the

Tuilu.

