174 ROMAN EMPIRE.

was often contemptible or tragic. A being of the nature

of man, endowed with the same faculties, but with a

longer measure of existence, would cast down a smile of

pity and contempt on the crimes and follies of human

ambition, so eager, in a narrow span, to grasp at a pre­

carious and short-lived enjoyment. It is thus that the

experience of history exalts and enlarges the horizon of

our intellectual view. In a composition of some days,

in a perusal of some hours, six hundred years have rolled

away, and the duration of a life or reign is contracted to

a fleeting moment: the grave is ever beside the throne;

the success of a criminal is almost instantly followed by

the loss of his prize; and our immortal reason survives

and disdains the sixty phantoms of kings who have pass­

ed before our eyes, and faintly dwell on our remembrance.

The observation, that in every age and climate, ambition

has prevailed with the same commanding energy, may

abate the surprise of a philosopher; but while he con­

demns the vanity, he may search the motive, of this

universal desire to obtain and hold the sceptre of domi­

nion. To the greater part of the Byzantine series, we

cannot reasonably ascribe the love of fame and of man­

kind. The virtue alone of John Comnenus was benefi­

cent and pure: the most illustrious of the princes, who

precede or follow that respectable name, have trod with

some dexterity and vigour the crooked and bloody paths

of a selfish policy; in scrutinizing the imperfect charac­

ters of Leo the Isaurian, Basil I. and Alexius Comnenus,

of Theophilus, the second Basil, and Manuel Comnenus,

our esteem and censure are almost equally balanced;

and the remainder of the imperial crowd could only de­

sire and expect to be forgotten by posterity. Was per­

sonal happiness the aim and object of their ambition?

I shall not descant on the vulgar topics of the misery

of kings; but I may surely observe, that their condition,

of all others, is the most pregnant with fear, and the

least susceptible of hope. For these opposite passions,

