230 ROMAN EMPIRE.

If we retrace the outlines of thb geographical

His neigh- . . .111 i i • e i

bourn and picture, it will be seen that the empire ot the

enemies. extended between east and west, from

the Ebro to the Elbe or Vistula; between the north and

south, from the dutchy of Beneventum to the river Eyder,

the perpetual boundary of Germany and Denmark. The

personal and political importance of Charlemagne was

magnified by the distress and division of the rest of

Europe. The islands of Great Britain and Ireland

.were disputed by a crowd of princes of Saxon or Scot­

tish origin; and after the loss of Spain, the Christian

and Gothic kingdom of Alphonso the Chaste, was con­

fined to the narrow range of the Asturian mountains.

These petty sovereigns revered the power or virtue of

the Carlovingian monarch, implored the honour and

support of his alliance, and styled him their common

parent, the sole and supreme emperor of the west.1

He maintained a more equal intercourse with the

caliph Harun al Rashid/ whose dominion stretched

from Africa to India, and accepted from his ambas­

sadors a tent, a water-clock, an elephant, and the keys

of the holy sepulchre. It is not easy to conceive the

private friendship of a Frank and an Arab, who were

strangers to each other's person, and language, and

religion: but their public correspondence was founded

on vanity, and their remote situation left no room for

a competition of interest. Two-thirds of the western

empire of Rome were subject to Charlemagne, and the

deficiency was amply supplied by his command of the

inaccessible or invincible nations of Germany. But in

the choice of his enemies, we may be reasonably sur­

prised that he so often preferred the poverty of the north

* See Eginhard, c. 16. and Gaillard, torn. 2. p. 361 — 385. who mentions, witha  
loose reference, the intercourse of Charlemagne and Egbert, the emperor's gift
of

his own sword, and the modest answer of his Saxon disciple. The anecdote, if

genuine, would have adorned oar English histories.

J The correspondence is mentioned only in the French annals, and the orientals

are ignorant of the caliph's friendship for the Christian dag — a polite
appellation,

which Harun bestows on the emperor of the Greeks.

