CHAP. LII. 469

was numbered among the ansars, or auxiliaries, of Me­

dina, who sheltered the head of the flying prophet. In

his youth he fought, at Beder and Ohud, under the holy

standard: in his mature age he was the friend and fol­

lower of Al i; and the last remnant of his strength and

life was consumed in a distant and dangerous war

against the enemies of the Koran. His memory was

revered; but the place of his burial was neglected and

unknown, during a period of seven hundred and eighty

years, till the conquest of Constantinople by Mahomet

the Second. A seasonable vision (for such are the ma­

nufacture of eveiy religion) revealed the holy spot at the

foot of the walls and the bottom of the harbour; and

the mosch of Ayub has been deservedly chosen for the

simple and martial inauguration of the Turkish sultans.d

The event of the siege revived, both in the

Peace and ° .'

tribute, east and west, the reputation of the Roman arms,

'and cast a momentary shade over the glories of

the Saracens. The Greek ambassador was favourably

received at Damascus, in a general council of the emirs

or koreish; a peace, or truce, of thirty years, was ratified

between the two empires; and the stipulation of an

annual tribute, fifty horses of a noble breed, fifty slaves,

and three thousand pieces of gold, degraded the majesty

of the commander of the faithful.* The aged caliph

was desirous of possessing his dominions, and ending his

days in tranquillity and repose; while the Moors and

Indians trembled at his name, his palace and city of Da­

mascus was insulted by the Mardaites, or Maronites, of

mount Libanus, the firmest barrier of the empire, till they

were disarmed and transplanted by the suspicious policy

of the Greeks/ After the revolt of Arabia and Persia,

J Demetrius Cantemir's Hist, of the Othman Empire, p. 105,106. Rycaut's State

of the Ottoman Empire, p. 10,11. Voyages de Thevenot, part 1. p. 189. The

Christians, who suppose that the martyr Abu Ayub is vulgarly confounded with

the patriarch Job, betray their own ignorance rather than that of the Turks.

'Theopbanes, though a Greek, deserves credit for these tributes, (Chronograph.

p. 295, 296. 300, 3OI.) which are confirmed, with some variation, by the
Arabic

History of Abulpharagius. (Dynast, p. 128. vers. Pocock.)

'The censure of Theophanes is just and pointed, rm p*paMin JimtJ-riwr »X;»TH-

