214 ROMAN EMPIRE.

by danger and dissimulation, and she could only

labour to protect and promote some favourite monks

whom she drew from their caverns, and seated on the

metropolitan thrones of the east. But as soon as she

reigned in her own name and that of her son, Irene

more seriously undertook the ruin of the Iconoclasts;

and the first step of her future persecution, was a

general edict for liberty of conscience. In the resto­

ration of the monks, a thousand images were exposed

to the public veneration; a thousand legends were

invented of their sufferings and miracles. By the op­

portunities of death or removal, the episcopal seats were

judiciously filled: the most eager competitors for earth­

ly or celestial favour, anticipated and flattered the

judgment of their sovereign; and the promotion of her

secretary Tarasius, gave Irene the patriarch of Constan­

tinople, and the command of the oriental church. But

the decrees of a general council could only be repealed

by a similar assembly;1 the Iconoclasts, whom she con­

vened, were bold in possession, and averse to debate; and

the feeble voice of the bishops was re-echoed by the more

formidable clamour of the soldiers and people of Con­

stantinople. The delay and intrigues of a year,

general the separation of the disaffected troops, and the

choice of Nice for a second orthodox synod, re-

moved these obstacles; and the episcopal con-

Sept. 24-1 science was again, after the Greek fashion, in

the hands of the prince. No more than eigh­

teen days were allowed for the consummation of this

important work: the Iconoclasts appeared, not as

fudges, but as criminals or penitents; the scene was de­

corated by the legates of pope Hadrian and the eastern

patriarch,11 the decrees were framed by the president Ta­

'See the Acts, in Greek and Latin, of the second council of Nice, with a num­

ber of relative pieces, in the seventh volume of the councils, p. 645—1600. A

faithful version, with some critical notes, would provoke, in different
readers,»

sigh or a smile.

k The pope's legates were casual messengers, two priests without any special

commission, and who were disavowed on their return. Some vagabond monkt

