CHAP. L. 289

in his native land of Chaldea: of the myriads of pro­

phets, Moses and Christ alone lived and reigned; and

the remnant of the inspired writings was comprised in

the books of the Old and the New Testament. The

miraculous story of Moses is consecrated and embel­

lished in the Koran;0 and the captive Jews enjoy the

secret revenge of imposing their own belief on the

nations whose recent creeds they deride. For the au­

thor of Christianity, the Mahometans are taught by the

prophet to entertain a high and mysterious reverence.11

Jesus. Verily, Christ Jesus, the-son of Mary, is the

apostle of God, and his word, which he conveyed into

Mary, and a Spirit proceeding from him: honourable in

this world, and in the world to come; and one of those

who approach near to the presence of God.* The won­

ders of the genuine and apocryphal gospels'are profusely

heaped on his head; and the Latin church has not dis­

dained to borrow from the Koran the immaculate con­

ception* of his virgin mother. Yet Jesus was a mere

mortal; and, at the day of judgment, his testimony will

serve to condemn both the Jews, who reject him as a

prophet, and the Christians, who adore him as the Son

of God. The malice of his enemies aspersed his repu­

tation, and conspired against his life; but their inten­

tion only was guilty, a phantom or a criminal was sub­

stituted on the cross, and the innocent saint was trans­

lated to the seventh heaven.' During six hundred years

0 The articles of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Sec. in the Bibliotheque of

d'Herbelot, are gaily bedecked with the fanciful legends of the Mahometans,
who

have built on the ground-work of Scripture and the Talmud.

P Koran, c. 7. p. 128, &c. c. 10. p. 173, &c. D'Herbelot, p. 647, &c.

1 Koran, c. 3. p. 40. c. 4. p. 80. D'Herbelot, p. 399, &c.

'See the gospel of St. Thomas, or of the Infancy, in the Codex Apocryphus

N.T. of Fabricius, who collects the various testimonies concerning it. (p.
128—

158.) It was published in Greek by Cotelier, and in Arabic by Sike, who thinks

our present copy more recent than Mahomet. Yet his quotations agree with the

original about the speech of Christ in his cradle, his living birds of clay,
&c. (Sikt,

c. 1. p. 168, 169. c. 36. p. 198,199. c. 46. p. 206. CoUlier, c. 2. p. 160,
161.)

• It is darkly hinted in the Koran, (c. 3. p. 39.) and more clearly explained
by

the tradition of the Sonnites. (Sale's Note, and Maracci, torn. 2. p. 112.) In
the

twelfth century, the immaculate conception was condemned by St . Bernard as a

presumptuous novelty. (Fra Paolo, Istoria del Concilio di Trento, lib. 2.)

'See the Koran, c. 3. v. 53. and c. 4. v. 156. of Maracci's edition. Deus est

prestantissimus dolose agentium (an odd phrase) .... nee crucifizerunt eum,
aed

VOL. VI. U

