CHAP. XLIX. 207

the decrees of the senate and people successively in­

vested Charles Martel and his posterity with the honours

of patrician of Rome. The leaders of a powerful nation

would have disdained a servile title and subordinate

office; but the reign of the Greek emperors was sus­

pended; and, in the vacancy of the empire, they derived

a more glorious commission from the pope and the

republic. The Roman ambassadors presented these

patricians with the keys of the shrine of St. Peter, as a

pledge and symbol of sovereignty; with a holy banner,

which it was their right and duty to unfurl in the de­

fence of the church and city.* In the time of Charles

Martel and of Pepin, the interposition of the Lombard

kingdom covered the freedom, while it threatened the

safety, of Rome; and the patriciate represented only

the title, the service, the alliance, of these distant pro­

tectors. The power and policy of Charlemagne anni­

hilated an enemy, and imposed a master. In his first

visit to the capital, he was received with all the honours

which had formerly been paid to the exarch, the repre­

sentative of the emperor: and these honours obtained

some new decorations from the joy and gratitude of

Pope Hadrian I." No sooner was he informed of the

sudden approach of the monarch, than he dispatched

the magistrates and nobles of Rome to meet him, with

the banner, about thirty miles from the city. At the

distance of one mile, the Flaminian way was lined with

the schools or national communities, of Greeks, Lom­

bards, Saxons, &c.: the Roman youth were under arms;

and the children of a more tender age, with palms and

olive branches in their hands, chanted the praises of

'The papal advocates can soften the symbolic meaning of the banner and the

keys; bat the style of ad rtgnum dimisimus,oidirezimus, (Codex. Carolin,
epist. 1.

torn. 3. pars 2. p. 76.) seems to allow of no palliation or escape. In the MS.

of the Vienna library, they read, instead of regnwn, rogum, prayer or request
(see

Ducange); and the royalty of Charles Martel is subverted by this important
cor­

rection. (Catalini, in his Critical Prefaces, Annali d'ltalia, torn. 17. p.
95—99.)

0 In the authentic narrative of this reception, the Liber Pontificals
observes—

obviam illi > jus sanctitas dirigens venerabiles cruces, id est signa; sicut,
mos est ad

exarcham.autpatriciumsuscipiendum, eum cum ingentihonoresuscipi fecit,
(torn.3.

para 1. p. 185.)

