CHAP. L. 285

Persian, and the Syrian monk, whom they accuse of

lending their secret aid to the composition of the

Koran.0 Conversation enriches the understanding, but

solitude is the school of genius; and the uniformity of

a work denotes the hand of a single artist. From his

earliest youth, Mahomet was addicted to religious con­

templation: each year, during the month of Ramadan,

he withdrew from the world and from the arms of Ca-

dijah: in the cave of Hera, three miles from Mecca,*1

he consulted the spirit of fraud or enthusiasm, whose

abode is not in the heavens, but in the mind of the

prophet. The faith which, under the name of Islam,

he preached to his family and nation, is compounded

of an eternal truth, and a necessary fiction, THAT THERE

IS ONLY ONE GOD, AND THAT MAHOMET IS THE

APOSTLE OF GOD.

It is the boast of the Jewish apologists, that

'while the learned nations of antiquity were de­

luded by the fables of Polytheism, their simple ancestors

of Palestine preserved the knowledge and worship of the

true God. The moral attributes of Jehovah may not

easily be reconciled with the standard of human virtue:

his metaphysical qualities are darkly expressed; but each

page of the Pentateuch and the Prophets is an evidence

of his power: the unity of his name is inscribed on the

first table of the law; and his sanctuary was never de­

filed by any visible image of the invisible essence.

After the ruin of the temple, the faith of the Hebrew

exiles was purified, fixed, and enlightened, by the spi­

ritual devotion of the synagogue; and the authority of

Mahomet will not justify his perpetual reproach, that

a I am not at leisure to pursue the fables or conjectures which name the
stran­

gers accused or suspected by the infidels of Mecca. (Koran, c. 16. p. 223. e.
35.

p. 297. with Sale's Remarks. Prideaux's Life of Mahomet, p. 21—27. Gag-

•nier. Not. ad Abulfed. p. 11. 74. Maracci, torn. 2. p. 400.) Even Prideanx
has

observed that the transaction must have been secret, and that the scene lay in
the

heart of Arabia.

d Abulfeda, in Vit. c. 7. p. 15. Gagnier, torn. 1. p. 133. 135. The situation

of mount Hera is remarked by Abulfeda. (Geograph. Arab. p. 4.) Yet Maho-

-met had never read of the cave of Egeria, ubi noctums Numa constituebat arnica),  
•of the Idiean mount, where Minos conversed with Jove, &c.

