CHAP. Lit. 471

productive of the invention or familiar use of our present

numerals, the Arabic or Indian ciphers, as they are com­

monly styled, a regulation of office has promoted the

most important discoveries of arithmetic, algebra, and

the mathematical sciences.k

Second Whilst the caliph Waled sat idle on the throne

n- of Damascus, while his lieutenants achieved the

conquest of Transoxiana and Spain, a third army

71&—T1B. of Saracens overspread the provinces of Asia

Minor, and approached the borders of the Byzantine

capital. But the attempt and disgrace of the second

siege was reserved for his brother Soliman, whose am­

bition appears to have been quickened by a more active

and martial spirit. In the revolutions of the Greek em­

pire, after the tyrant Justinian had been punished and

avenged, a humble secretary, Anastasius or Artemius,

was promoted by chance or merit to the vacant purple.

He was alarmed by the sound of war; and his ambas­

sador returned from Damascus with the tremendous

news, that the Saracens were preparing an armament by

sea and land, such as would transcend the experience

of the past, or the belief of the present age. The pre­

cautions of Anastasius were not unworthy of his station

or of the impending danger. He issued a peremptory

mandate, that all persons who were not provided with

the means of subsistence for a three years' siege, should

evacuate the city; the public granaries and arsenals

were abundantly replenished; the walls were restored

and strengthened; and the engines for Casting stones, or

darts, or fire, were stationed along the ramparts', or in

the brigantines of war, of which an additional number

was hastily constructed. To prevent is safer, as well as

more honourable, than to repel an attack; and a design

k According to a new, though probable notion, maintained by M. de Villoison,

(Aftecdota Grieca, torn. 2. p. 152—157.) our ciphers a/e not of Indian or
Arabic

invention. They were used by the Greek and Latin arithmeticians long before
the

age of Boethins. After the extinction of science in the west, they were
adopted

by the Arabic versions from the original MSS. and restored to the Latins about
the

eleventh century.

