182 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the east and west have been decorated by the pencil of

St. Luke; and the evangelist, who was perhaps a phy­

sician, has been forced to exercise the occupation of a

painter, so profane and odious in the eyes of the pri­

mitive Christians. The Olympian Jove, created by

the muse of Homer and the chisel of Phidias, might

inspire a philosophic mind with momentary devotion;

but these Catholic images were faintly and flatly deli­

neated by monkish artists, in the last degeneracy of

taste and genius."

The worship of images had stolen into the

church by insensible degrees, and each petty

worship. step was pleasing to the superstitious mind,

as productive of comfort and innocent of sin. But in

the beginning of the eighth century, in the full magni­

tude of the abuse, the more timorous Greeks were

awakened by an apprehension, that, under the mask

of Christianity, they had restored the religion of their

fathers: they heard, with grief and impatience, the

name of idolaters; the incessant charge of the Jews

and Mahometans/ who derived from the law and the

Koran an immortal hatred to graven images and all

the relative worship. The servitude of the Jews might

curb their zeal and depreciate their authority; but the

triumphant Mussulmans, who reigned at Damascus,

and threatened Constantinople, cast into the scale of

reproach the accumulated weight of truth and victory.

The cities of Syria, Palestine, and Egypt, had been for­

tified with the images of Christ, his mother and his

saints; and each city presumed on the hope or promise

of miraculous defence. In a rapid conquest of ten years,

the Arabs subdued those cities and these images; and,

0 " Your scandalous figures stand quite out from the canvas: they are as bad

a* a groupe of statues!" It was thus that the ignorance and bigotry of a Greek

priest applauded the picture of Titian, which he had ordered, and refused to

P By Cedrenus, ZonaraJ, Glycas, and Manasses, the origin of the Iconoclasts is

imputed to the caliph Yezid and two Jews, who promised the empire to Leo; and

the reproaches of these hostile sectaries are turned into an absurd conspiracy
for

restoring the purity of the Christian worship. (Sec Spanheim, Hist. inag. c.
P.)

