376 ROMAN EMPIRE.

that belong to the synagogue of Satan, who have shaven

crowns ;a be sure you cleave their skulls, and give them

no quarter till they either turn Mahometans, or pay tri­

bute. All profane or frivolous conversation; all dan­

gerous recollection of ancient quarrels, was severely pro­

hibited among the Arabs: in the tumult of a camp, the

exercises of religion were assiduously practised; and the

intervals of action were employed in prayer, meditation,

and the study of the Koran. The abuse, or even the use

of wine was chastised by fourscore strokes on the soles of

the feet, and in the fervour of their primitive zeal, many

secret sinners revealed their fault, and solicited their

punishment. After some hesitation the command of the

army was delegated to Abu Obeidah, one of the fugitives

of Mecca and companions of Mahomet; whose zeal and

devotion were assuaged, without being abated, by the

singular mildness and benevolence of his temper. But

in all the emergencies of war, the soldiers demanded the

superior genius of Caled; and whoever might be the

choice of the prince, the sword of God was both in fact

and fame the foremost leader of the Saracens. He

obeyed without reluctance; he was consulted without

jealousy; and such was the spirit of the man, or rather

of the times, that Caled professed his readiness to serve

under the banner of the faith, though it were in the hands

of a child or an enemy. Glory, and riches, and domi­

nion, were indeed promised to the victorious Mussulman;

but he was carefully instructed, that if the goods of this

life were his only incitement, they likewise would be his

only reward.

siege of One of the fifteen provinces of Syria, the cul-

Bosra. tivated lands to the eastward of the Jordan, had

been decorated by Roman vanity with the name of Ara-

* Even in the seventh century, the monks were generally laymen. they wore  
their hair long and dishevelled, and shaved their heads when they were
ordained

priests. The circular tonsure was sacred and mysterious: it was the crown of

thorns, but it was likewise a royal diadem, and every priest was a king, &c.
(Tbo-

massin, Discipline de 1'Eglise, torn. 1. p. 721—758.especially p. 737,738.)

