CHAP. L. 257

•

or partial enjoyments. A shady grove, a green pasture,

a stream of fresh water, are sufficient to attract a colony

of sedentary Arabs to the fortunate spots which can af­

ford food and refreshment to themselves and their cattle,

and which encourage their industry in the cultivation

of the palm-tree and the vine. The high lands that

'border on the Indian ocean are distinguished by their

superior plenty of wood and water; the air is more tem­

perate, the fruits are more delicious, the animals and

the human race more numerous: the fertility of the soil,

invites and rewards the toil of the husbandman; and

the peculiar gifts of frankincensef and coffee have at­

tracted in different ages the merchants of the world.

If it be compared with the rest of the peninsula, this

sequestered region may truly deserve the appellation of

the happy: and the splendid colouring of fancy and

fiction has been suggested by contrast and counte­

nanced by distance. It was for this earthly paradise that

nature had reserved her choicest favours and her most

curious workmanship: the incompatible blessings of

luxury*and innocence were ascribed to the natives: the

soil was impregnated with goldg and gems, and both

the land and sea were taught to exhale the odours of

Division of aromatic sweets. This division of the sandy,

the stony,' the stony, and the happy, so familiar to the

and the Greeks and Latins, is unknown to the Arabians

Arabia, themselves: and it is singular enough, that a

country, whose language and inhabitants have ever been

the same, should scarcely retain a vestige of its ancient

geography. The maritime districts of Bahrein and

Oman are opposite to the realm of Persia. The king-

'The aromatics, especially the thus, or frankincense, of Arabia, occupy the
twelfth

book of Pliny. Our great poet (Paradise Lost, lib. 4.) introduces, in a
simile, the

spicy odours that are blown by the north-east wind from the Sabaean coast:—

. Many a league,

Pleas'd with the grateful scent, old Ocean smiles.

(Plin. Hist , Natur. it. 42.)

f Agathaicides affirms, that lumps of pure gold were found, from the size of
an

olive to that of a nut; that iron was twice, and silver ten times, the value
of gold,

(de Mari Rnbro, p. 60.) These real or imaginary treasures are vanished; and no

gold mines are at present known in Arabia. (Niobubr, Description, p. 124.)

VOL. VJ. S

