CHAP. L. 307

and promises from their hands. In this eventful moment

the lance of an Arab might have changed the history of

the wor.ld. The flight of the prophet from Mecca to

Medina has fixed the memorable era of the Hegira,c

which, at the end of twelve centuries, still discriminates

the lunar years of the Mahometan nations.d

Received The religion of the Koran might have perish-

rfMediaa e(^ in *ts cradle, nad not Medina embraced with

A.D. eza. faith and reverence the holy outcasts of Mecca.

Medina, or the city, known under the name of Yathreb,

before it was sanctified by the throne of the prophet, was

divided between the tribes of the Charegites and the

Awsites, whose hereditary feud was rekindled by the

slightest provocations: two colonies of Jews, who boasted

a sacerdotal race, were their humble allies, and without

converting the Arabs, they introduced the taste of science

and religion, which distinguished Medina as the city

of the book. Some of her noblest citizens, in a pil­

grimage to the Caaba, were converted by the preaching

of Mahomet; on their return they diffused the belief of

God and his prophet, and the new alliance was ratified

by their deputies in two secret and nocturnal interviews

on a hill in the suburbs of Mecca. In the first, ten Cha­

regites and two Awsites united in faith and love, pro­

tested in the name of their wives, their children, and

their absent brethren, that they would for ever profess

the-creed, and observe the precepts, of the Koran. The

second was a political association, the first vital spark of

the empire of the Saracens.0 Seventy-three men and

two women of Medina held a solemn conference with

c The Hegira was instituted by Omar, the second caliph, in imitation of the
ear

of the martyrs of the Christians; (d'Herbelot, p. 444.) and properly commenced

fdzty-eight days before the flight of Mahomet, with the first of Moharren, or
first

day of that Arabian year, which coincides with Friday, July 16, A. D. 629.
(Abul­

feda, Vit. Moharn. c. 22, 23. p. 45—50. and Greave's edition of tiling BeigV.

Epocha e Arabum, &c. c. 1. p. 8. 10, &c.)

1 Mahomet's life, from his mission to the Hegira, may be found in Abulfeda

(p. 14—45.) and Gagnier. (torn. 1. 134—251. 342—383.) The legend from

p. 187—264. is vouched by Al Jannabi, and disdained by Abulfeda.

'The triple inauguration of Mahomet is described by Abulfeda (p. 3O. 33.

80. i and Gagnier. (torn. 1. p. 349, &c. torn. 1. p. 223, 4c.)

x 2

