210 ROMAN EMPIRE.

lives of a temporal princte; the choice of magistrates,

the exercise of justice, the imposition of taxes, and the

wealth of the palace of Ravenna. In the dissolution of

the Lombard kingdom, the inhabitants of the dutchy of

Spoleto* sought a refuge from the storm, shaved their

heads after the Roman fashion, declared themselves the

servants and subjects of St. Peter, and completed, by

this voluntary surrender, the present circle of the eccle­

siastical state. That mysterious circle was enlarged to

an indefinite extent, by the verbal or written donation

of Charlemagne/ who, in the first transports of his vit-

tory, despoiled himself and the GreeTc emperor of the

cities and islands which had formerly been annexed to

the exarchate. But in the cooler moments of absence

and reflection, he viewed, with an eye of jealousy and

envy, the recent greatness of his ecclesiastical airy. The

execution of his own and his father's promises was re­

spectfully eluded: the king of the Franks and the Lom­

bards asserted the inalienable rights of the empire; and,

in his life and death, Ravenna," as well as Rome, was

numbered in the list of his metropolitan cities. The

sovereignty of the exarchate melted away in the hands

of the popes; they found in the archbishops of Ravenna

a dangerous and domestic rival;" the nobles and people

disdained the yoke of a priest: and, in the disorders of

the times, they could only retain the memory of an

• Spoletini deprecati aunt, ut eos in servitio B. Petri reciperet et more
Roma-

norum tonsurari faceret. (Anastasius, p. 185.) Yet it may be a question
whether

they gave their own persons or their country.

» The policy and donations of Charlemagne are carefully examined by St. Marc,

(Abrige, torn. 1. p. 390—408.) who has well studied the Codex Carolinus. I be-

lieve, with him, that they were only verbal. The moat ancient act of donation
that

pretends to be extant, is that of the emperor Louis the Pious: (Signonius, de
Regno

Italiae, lib. 4. Opera, torn. 2. p. 267—270.) its authenticity, or at least
its integrity,

are much questioned; (Pagi, A. D. 817, no. 7, &c Muratori, AnnaK, torn. 6. p.
43t,

&c.T)issertat, Chorographica, p. 33,34.) but I see no reasonable objection to
these

princes so freely disposing of what was not their own.

"Charlemagne solicited and obtained from the proprietor, Hadrian I. the mo­

saics of the palace of Ravenna, for the decoration of Aix-la-Chapelle. (Cod.

Carol in. epist. 67. p. 323.)

* The popes often complain of the. usurpation of Leo of Ravenna: (Coder, Ca-  
rolin. epist. 51—53. p. 200—205.) Si corpus St. Andreas fratris germani St.
Petri

hie bwmasset, nequaquam.nos Romatii pontificca sic subjugassrnt. (Agnellus,
Liber

Fontincalis, in Scriptores Rerum Ital. torn. 2. pars 1. p. 107.)

