480 ROMAN EMPIRE.

title of king. The Goths, the Gascons, and the Franks,

assembled under the standard of this Christian hero: he

repelled the first invasion of the Saracens; and Zama,

lieutenant of the caliph, lost his army and his life under

the walls of Thoulouse. The ambition of his successors

was stimulated by revenge; they repassed the Pyrenneea

with the means and the resolution of conquest. The ad­

vantageous situation which had recommended Narbonne,

as the first Roman colony, was again chosen by the Mos­

lems; they claimed the province of Septemania or Lan-

guedoc as a just dependence of the Spanish monarchy;

the vineyards of Gascony and the city of Bourdeaux

were possessed by the sovereign of Damascus and Samar-

cand; and the south of France, from the mouth of the

Garonne to that of the Rhone, assumed the manners and

religion of Arabia.

Expedition But tnese narrow limits were scorned by the

and Ticto- spirit of Abdalrahman, or Abderame, who had

Abderame, been restored by the caliph Hashem to the wishes

A. D. 731. Of the sofers and people of Spain. That veteran

and daring commander adjudged to the obedience of the

prophet whatever yet remained of France or of Europe,

and prepared to execute the sentence, at the head of a

formidable host, in the full confidence of surmounting

all opposition either of nature or of man. His first care

was to suppress a domestic rebel, who commanded the

most important passes of the Pyrennees: Munuza, a

Moorish chief, had accepted the alliance of the duke of

Aquitain; and Eudes, from a motive of private or public

interest, devoted his beauteous daughter to the embraces

of the African misbeliever. But the strongest fortresses

of Cerdagne were invested by a superior force: the rebel

was overtaken and slain in the mountains; and his widow

was sent captive to Damascus, to gratify the desires, or

• Even before that colony, A. U. C. 630, (Velleius Patercul. 1. 15.) in the
time

of Polybius, (Hist. lib. 3. p. 865. edit. Gronov.) Narbonne was a Celtic town
of the

first eminence, and one of the most northern places of the known world. (D'Aa-

ville. Notice de I'Ancienne Gaule, p. 473.) I

