258 ROMAN EMPIRE.

dom of Yemen displays the limits, or at least the situa­

tion, of Arabia Felix: the name of Neged is extended

over the inland space; and the birth of'Mahomet has

illustrated the province of Hejaz along the coast 'of

the Red sea.b •" • »

Manners of The measure of population is regulated by the

weenfor means of subsistence; and the inhabitants of"

J""*?1*1 this Vast peninsula might be outnumbered by

the subjects of a fertile and industrious province.

Along the shores of the Persian gulf of the ocean, and

even of the Red sea, the Itthyophagi,' or fish eaters,

continued to wander in quest of their precarious food.

In this primitive and abject state, which ill deserves the

name of society, the human brute, without 'art or laws,

almost without sense or language, is poorly distinguished

from the rest of the animal creation. Generations and

ages might roll away in silent oblivion, and the helpless

savage was restrained from multiplying'his face, by the

wants and pursuits which confined his existence to the

narrow margin of the sea-coast. But in an early period

of antiquity the great body of the Arabs had emerged

from this scene of misery; and as the naked wilder­

ness could not'maintain* a people of hunters, they rose

at once to the more secure and plentiful condition of

the pastoral life. The same life'is uniformly pursued

by the roving tribes of the desert, and in the portrait of

the modern Bedoweens, we may trace the features of

their ancestors,1* who, in the age of Moses or Mahomet

, :•'» l 1i 'i 1 Ji

'' Consult, peruse, and study, the Specimen 1 listom Arabum of Pocock! (Oxon.

1650, in 4to.) The thirty pages of text and version are extracted from the
Dynasties

of Gregory Abulpharagms, which Pocock afterward translated: (Oion. 1663, in

4to.) the three hundred and fifty-eight notes from a classic and original work
on

the Arabian antiquities. .

'Arrianremarks the Icthyophagi of the coast of Hejaz, (PeriplusMarisErythnEi,

p. It.) and beyond Aden. (p. 15.) It seems probable that the shores of the Red
sea

(in the largest sense) were occupied by these savages in the time, perhaps, of
Cy­

rus; but I can hardly believe that any cannibals were left among the savages
in

the reign of Justinian. (Procop. de Bell. Persic, lib. 1. c. 19.)

k See the Specimen Historis Arabum of Pocock, p. 2. 5. 86, &c. The journey

of M. d'Arvieux, in 1664, to the camp of the emir of mount Carmel, (Voyage de
la

Palestine, Amsterdam, 1718.) exhibits a pleasing and original picture of the
life of

the Bedoweens, which may be illustrated from Niebuhr (Description de 1'Arabic,

