CHAP. L.

to the south-east of Mecca, a fortress of strength, whose

fertile lands produce the fruits of Syria in the midst of

the Arabian desert. A friendly tribe, instructed (I know

not how) in the art of sieges, supplied him with a train

of battering-rams and military engines, with a body of

five hundred artificers. But it was in vain that he offered

freedom to the slaves of Tayef; that he violated his own

laws by the extirpation of the fruit-trees; that the ground

was opened by the miners; that the breach was assaulted

by the troops. After a siege of twenty days the prophet

sounded a retreat; but he retreated with a song of de­

vout triumph, and affected to pray for the repentance and

safety of the unbelieving city. The spoil of this fortunate

expedition amounted to six thousand captives, twenty-

four thousand camels, forty thousand sheep, and four

thousand ounces of silver: a tribe who had fought at

Honain, redeemed their prisoners by the sacrifice of their

idols; but Mahomet compensated the loss, by resigning

to the soldiers his fifth of the plunder, and wished for

their sake, that he possessed as many head of cattle as

there were trees in the province of Tehama. Instead of

chastising the disaffection of the Koreish,he endeavoured

to cut out their tongues (his own expression), and to se­

cure their attachment by a superior measure of liberality:

Abu Sophian alone was presented with three hundred

camels and twenty ounces of silver; and Mecca was sin­

cerely converted to the profitable religion of the Koran.

The fugitives and auxiliaries complained, that they

who had bore the burden were neglected in the season

of victory. Alas (replied their artful leader), suffer me

to conciliate these recent enemies, these doubtful proselytes,

by the gift of 'some perishable goods. To your guard 1

intrust my life and fortunes. You are the companions

of my exile, of my kingdom, of my paradise. He was fol­

lowed by the deputies of Tayef, who dreaded the repe­

tition of a siege. Grant us, O apostle of God, a truce of

three years, with the toleration of our ancient worship.—

v2

