CHAP. XLIX. 253

Cologne, and Treves, the perpetual arch-chancellors of

Germany, Italy, and Arles. The great marshal, on

horseback, exercised his function with a silver measure

of oats, which he emptied on the ground, and immedi­

ately dismounted to regulate the order of the guests.

The great steward, the count palatine of the Rhine,

placed the dishes on the table. The great chamberlain,

the margrave of Brandenburg, presented, after the re­

past, the golden ewer and basin, to wash. The king of

Bohemia, as great cupbearer, was represented by the

emperor's brother, the duke of Luxemburgh and Bra­

bant; and the procession was closed by the great

huntsman, who introduced a boar and a stag, with a

loud chorus of horns and hounds.0 Nor was the su­

premacy of the emperor confined to Germany alone;

the hereditary monarchs of Europe confessed the pre­

eminence of his rank and dignity; he was the first of

the Christian princes, the temporal head of the great

republic of the west :p to his person the title of majesty

was long appropriated; and he disputed with the pope

the sublime prerogative of creating kings and assembling

councils. The oracle of the civil law, the learned Bar-

tolus, was a pensioner of Charles IV. and his school re­

sounded with the doctrine, that the Roman emperor was

the rightful sovereign of the earth, from the rising to

the setting sun. The contrary opinion was condemned,

not as an error, but as a heresy, since even the gospel

had pronounced, And there went forth a decree from

Cccsar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed?

Contrast of If we annihilate the interval of time and space

thepower between Augustus and Charles, strong and

desty of striking will be the contrast between the two

ugustus' Caesars; the Bohemian, who concealed his

weakness under the mask of ostentation, and the Ro­

"See the whole ceremony in Struvius, p. 629.

P The republic of Europe, with the pope and emperor at its head, was never

represented with more dignity than in the council of Constance. See Leufant'a

History of that assembly.

i Gravina, Origines Juris C'ivilis, p. 108.

