CHAP. L. 331

wise man may deceive himself, how a good man may

deceive others, how the conscience may slumber in a

mixed and middle state between self-illusion and volun­

tary fraud. Charity may believe that the original

motives of Mahomet were those of pure and genuine

benevolence; but a human missionary is incapable of

cherishing the obstinate unbelievers who reject his claims,

despise his arguments, and persecute his life; he might

forgive his personal adversaries, he may lawfully hate

the enemies of God; the stern passions of pride and re­

venge were kindled in the bosom of Mahomet, and he

sighed like the prophet of Nineveh, for the destruction

of the rebels whom he had condemned. The injustice

of Mecca, and the choice of Medina, transformed the

citizen into a prince, the humble preacher into the leader

of armies; but his sword was consecrated by the ex­

ample of the saints; and the same God who afflicts a

sinful world with pestilence and earthquakes, might in­

spire for their conversion or chastisement the valour of

his servants. In the exercise of political government,

he was compelled to abate of the stern rigour of fana­

ticism, to comply, in some measure, with the prejudices

and passions of his followers, and to employ even the

vices of mankind as the instruments of their salvation.

The use of fraud and perfidy, of cruelty and injustice,

were often subservient to the propagation of the faith;

and Mahomet commanded or approved the assassination

of the Jews and idolaters who had escaped from the field

of battle. By the repetition of such acts, the character

of Mahomet must have been gradually stained; and the

influence of such pernicious habits would be poorly com-

.pensated by the practice of the personal and social vir­

pa mmu o at ftOAia wftma, irftrfWiu ti owrort, (Plato, in Apolog. Sociat, c.
19.

p. 111. 122. edit. Fischer.) The familiar examples, which Socrates urges in Ms

Dialogue with Theages, (Platon Opera, torn. l.p. 128, 129. edit. Hen.
Stephan.)

are beyond the reach of human foresight: and the divine inspiration (the A i;i
...o> /

of the philosopher, in clearly taught in the Memorabilia of Xenophon. The
ideas

of the most rational Platonints are expressed by Cicero, (ds Divinat. 1.54.)
and in

&• fourteenth and fifteenth Dissertations of Maximus of Tyre, (p. 153—172.
edit.

Darin.)

