CHAP. L. 2«9

to decide; and those who most firmly believe her imma­

terial nature, are at a loss to understand how she can

think or act without the agency of the organs of sense.

Hell and The reunion of the soul and body will be fol-

paradise. lOWed by the final judgment of mankind: and,

in his copy of the Magian picture, the prophet has too

faithfully represented the forms of proceeding, and even

the slow and successive operations of an earthly tribunal.

By his intolerant adversaries he is upbraided for ex­

tending, even to themselves, the hope of salvation; for

asserting the blackest heresy, that every man who be­

lieves in God, and accomplishes good works, may expect

in the last day a favourable sentence. Such rational

indifference is ill adapted to the character of a fanatic;

nor is it probable that a messenger from heaven should

depreciate the value and necessity of his own revelation.

In the idiom of the Koran,q the belief of God is inse­

parable from that of Mahomet; the good works are

those which he has enjoined; and the two qualifications

imply the profession of Islam, to which all nations and

all sects are equally invited. Their spiritual blindness,

though excused by ignorance and crowned with virtue,

will be scourged with everlasting torments; and the

tears which Mahomet shed over the tomb of his mother,

for whom he was forbidden to pray, display a striking

contrast of humanity and enthusiasm/ The doom of

the infidels is common: the measure of their guilt and

punishment is determined by the degree of evidence

which they have rejected, by the magnitude of the errors

which they have entertained: the eternal mansions of

the Christians, the Jews, the Sabians, the Magians, and

i The candid Reland has demonstrated, that Mahomet damns all unbelievers;

(de Religion. Moharn. p. 128—142.) that devils will not be finally saved; (]i.
196

—199.) that paradise will not lolely consist of corporeal delights; (p.
199—205.)

and that women's souls are immortal, (p. 205—209.)

'Al Beidawi, apod Sale, Koran, c. 9. p. 164. The refusal to pray for as. un­

believing kindred, is justified, according to Mahomet, by the duty of a
prophet,

and the example of Abraham, who reprobated his own father as an enemy of God.

Yet Abraham, (he adds, c. 9. v. 116. Maracci, torn. t. p. 317.) fuit sane
pius,

mitis.

