CHAP. LI. 447

criminal cases to the subordinate jurisdiction of their own

laws and magistrates. But if the justice of Tarik pro­

tected the Christians, his gratitude and policy rewarded

the Jews, to whose secret or open aid he was indebted

for his most important acquisitions. Persecuted by the

kings and synods of Spain, who had often pressed the

alternative of banishment or baptism, that outcast nation

embraced the moment of revenge; the comparison of

their past and present state was the pledge of their fide­

lity; and the alliance between the disciples of Moses and

of Mahomet, was maintained till the final era of their

common expulsion. From the royal .seat of Toledo, the

Arabian leader spread his conquests to the north, over

the modern realms of Castile and Leon; but it is need­

less to enumerate the cities that yielded on his approach,

or again to describe the table of emerald,* transported

from the east by the Romans, acquired by the Goths

among the spoils of Rome, and presented by the Arabs

to the throne of Damascus. Beyond the Asturian moun­

tains, the maritime town of Gijon was the term' of the

lieutenant of Musa, who had performed, with the speed

of a traveller, his victorious march, of seven hundred

miles, from the rock of Gibraltar to the bay of Biscay.

The failure of land compelled him to retreat; and he

was recalled to Toledo, to excuse his presumption of

subduing a kingdom in the absence of his general.

Spain, which, in a more savage and disorderly state, had

resisted, two hundred years, the arms of the Romans,

was over-run in a few months by those of the Saracens;

and such was the eagerness of submission and treaty,

• In the Hiutoria Arabum, (c. 9. p. 17. ad calcem Elmacin), Roderic of Toledo

describes the emerald tables, and inserts the name of Medinat Almeyda in
Arabic

words and letters. He appears to be conversant with the Mahometan writers; but

I cannot agree with M. de (<ui;ues, (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 550.) that he
bad

read and transcribed Novairi; because he was dead a hundred years before No-

rairi composed his history. This mistake is founded on a still grosser error.
M. de

Guignes confounds the historian Roderic Ximenes. archbishop of Toledo, in the

thirteenth century, with cardinal Ximenes, who governed Spain in the beginning
of

the sixteenth, and was the subject, not the author of historical compositions.

1 Tarik might have inscribed oa the last rock, the boast of Regnard and bis
com­

panions in their Lapland journey, " Hie tandem stetimns, nobis vbi defuit
orbis."

