CHAP. XLIX. 237

the reign of the Othos; and their ambassador de­

scribes, in lively colours, the insolence of the Byzan­

tine court.' The Greeks affected to despise the poverty

and ignorance of the Franks and Saxons; and in their

last decline refused to prostitute to the kings of Ger­

many the title of Roman emperors.

These emperors, in the election of the popes,

- continued to exercise the powers which had  
been assumed by the Gothic and Grecian

princes; and the importance of this preroga-

A.IX BOO tive increased with the temporal estate and

spiritual jurisdiction of the Roman church.

In the Christian aristocracy, the principal members of

the clergy still formed a senate to assist the adminis­

tration, and to supply the vacancy, of the bishop.

Rome was divided into twenty-eight parishes, and each

parish was governed by a cardinal priest or presbyter

a tide which, however common and modest in its ori­

gin, has aspired to emulate the purple of kings. Their

number was enlarged by the association of the seven

deacons of the most considerable hospitals, the seven

palatine judges of the Lateran, and some dignitaries of

the church. The ecclesiastical senate was directed by

the seven cardinal-bishops of the Roman province,

who were less occupied in the superb diocesses of Ostia,

Porto, Velitrae, Tusculum, Praeneste, Tibur, and the

Sabines, than by their weekly service in the Lateran,

and their superior share in the honours and authority

of the apostolic see. On the death of the pope, these

bishops recommended a successor to the suffrage of the

college of cardinals,1 and their choice was ratified or

k Ipse nuim vos, non imperatoremid est RwiXm snfi lingua, sed ob indignationem

Pnya, id eatregem nnstrii vocabat. Liutprand. in Legal, in Script. Ital. torn.
2. para 1.

p. 479.) The pope had exhorted Nicephorus, emperor of the Gretkt, to make
peace

with Otho, the august emperor of the Romans—qu«e inscriptio secundum Graces

peccalriaet temeraria*.... imperatorem inquiunt, wriversatem, Romanorum,
Augta-

rtun, magnum, ulum, Nicephorurn. (p. 486.)

The origin and progress of the title of cardinal may be found in Thomassin;

(Discipline d'Eglise, torn. 1. p. 1261—1298.) Muratori, (Antiquitat. Italiae
Medii

iEvi, torn. 6. diaeert. 61. p. t59—182.) and Mosheim, (Institut , Hist.
Eccles.

p. 3-15—347.) who accurately remarks the forms and changes of the election.

