CHAP. LII. 477

justly denominated by the Greeks, the liquid 01 the maritime

fire. For the annoyance of the enemy, it was employed

with equal effect, by sea and land, in battles or in sieges.

It was either poured from the ramparts in large boilers,

or launched in red-hot balls of stone and iron, or darted

in arrows and javelins, twisted round with flax and tow,

which had deeply imbibed the inflammable oil: some­

times it was deposited in fire-ships, the victims and in­

struments of a more ample revenge, and was most com­

monly blown through long tubes of copper, which were

planted on the prow of a galley, and fancifully shaped

into the mouths of savage monsters, that seemed to vomit

a stream of liquid and consuming fire. This important

art was preserved at Constantinople, as the palladium of

the state; the galleys and artillery might occasionally

be lent to the allies of Rome; but the composition of the

Greek fire was concealed with the most jealous scruple,

and the terror of the enemies was increased and prolonged

by their ignorance and surprise. In the treatise of the

administration of the empire, the royal author* suggests

the answers and excuses that might best elude the indis­

creet curiosity and importunate demands of the barbarians.

They should be told that the mystery of the Greek fire

had been revealed by an angel to the first and greatest

of the Constantines, with a sacred, injunction, that this

gift of heaven, this peculiar blessing of the Romans,

should never be communicated to any foreign nation:

that the prince and subject were alike bound to religious

silence, under the temporal and spiritual penalties of

treason and sacrilege; and that the impious attempt

would provoke the sudden and supernatural vengeance

of the God of the Christians. By these precautions, the

secret was confined, above four hundred years, to the

Romans of the east; and, at the end of the eleventh cen­

tury, the Pisans, to whom every sea and every art were

familiar, suffered the effects, without understanding the

* Constantin. Porphyrogenit. de Administrat. Imperil, c. 13. p. 6!, 65.

