74 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the religion and empire of the Christians. The dis­

orders of their country, and their ignorance of the

Greek tongue, prevented their clergy from assisting at

the synod of Chalcedon, and they floated eighty-four

years,b in a state of indifference or suspense, till their

vacant faith was finally occupied by the missionaries

of Julian of Halicarnassus,0 who, in Egypt, their com­

mon exile, had been vanquished by the arguments or

the influence of his rival Severus, the Monophysite pa­

triarch of Antioch. The Armenians alone are the

pure disciples of Eutyches, an unfortunate parent, who

has been renounced by the greater part of his spiritual

progeny. They alone persevere in the opinion, that

the manhood of Christ was created, or existed without

creation, of a divine and incorruptible substance. Their

adversaries reproach them with the adoration of a phan­

tom; and they retort the accusation, by deriding or

execrating the blasphemy of the Jacobites, who impute

to the Godhead the vile infirmities of the flesh, even

the natural effects of nutrition and digestion. The re­

ligion of Armenia could not derive much glory from

the learning or the power of its inhabitants. The roy­

alty expired with the origin of their schism; and their

Christian kings, who arose and fell in the thirteenth

century on the confines of Cilicia, were the clients of

the Latins and the vassals of the Turkish sultan of Ico-

nium. The helpless nation has seldom been permitted

to enjoy the tranquillity of servitude. From the ear­

liest period to the present hour, Armenia has been the

theatre of perpetual war; the lands between Tauris and

Christ, de 1'Ethiope ct de 1'Armenie, p. 269—402.) He refers to the great
Arme­

nian History of Galanus, (3 vols. in folio, Rome, 1650—1661.) and commends the

state of Armenia in the third volume of the Nouveaux Memoires des Missions du

Levant. The work of a Jesuit must have sterling merit when it is praised by La

Croze.

b The schism of the Armenians is placed eighty-four years after the council of

Chalcedon. (Pagi, Critica, ad A. D. 535.) It was consummated at the end of

seventeen years; and it is from the year of Christ 552 that we date the era of
the

Armenians. (1'Art de verifier les Dates, p. 35.)

•' The sentiments and success of Julian of Halicarnassus may be seen in Libe-

ratus, (Brev. c. 19.) Benaudot, (Hist. Patriarch, Alei. p. 132—303.) and Asse-

mannus. ( Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. Dissertat. de Monophysitis, c. 8. p. 286.)

