CHAP. LII. 487

a day of battle. In the visible separation of parties the

green was consecrated to the Fatimites; the Ommiades

were distinguished by the white; and the black, as the

most adverse, was naturally adopted by the Abbassides.

Their turbans and garments were stained with that

gloomy colour: two black standards, on pike staves nine

cubits long, were borne aloft in the van of Abu Moslem;

and their allegorical names of the night and the shadow,

obscurely represented the indissoluble union and per­

petual succession of the line of Hashem. From the

Indus to the Euphrates, the east was convulsed by the

quarrel of the white and the black factions; the Abbas-

sides were most frequently victorious; but their public

success was clouded by the personal misfortune of their

chief. The court of Damascus, awakening from a long

slumber, resolved to prevent the pilgrimage of Mecca,

which Ibrahim had undertaken with a splendid retinue,

to recommend himself at once to the favour of the pro­

phet and of the people. A detachment of cavalry in­

tercepted his march and arrested his person; and the

unhappy Ibrahim, snatched away from the promise of

untasted royalty, expired in iron fetters in the dungeons

of Haran. His two younger brothers, Saffah and Al-

mansor, eluded the search of the tyrant, and lay conceal­

ed at Cufa, till the zeal of the people and the approach

of his eastern friends allowed them to expose their per­

sons to the impatient public. On Friday, in the dress

of a caliph, in the colours of the sect, Saffah proceeded

with religious and military pomp to the mosch: ascend­

ing the pulpit, he prayed and preached as the lawful

successor of Mahomet; and, after his departure, his

kinsmen bound a willing people by an oath of fidelity.

But it was on the banks of the Zab, and not in the mosch

of Cufa, that this important controversy was determined.

Every advantage appeared to be on the side of the white

faction: the authority of established government; an

army of a hundred and twenty thousand soldiers, against

