60 ROMAN EMPIRE.

were crushed by the penal laws: and as early as the

reign of Justinian, it became difficult to find a church

of Nestorians within the limits of the Roman empire.

Beyond those limits they had discovered a new world,

in which they might hope for liberty, and aspire to

conquest. In Persia, notwithstanding the resistance

of the Magi, Christianity had struck a deep root, and

the nations of the east reposed under its salutary shade.

The Catholic, or primate, resided in the capital: in

his synods, and in their diocesses, his metropolitans,

bishops, and clergy, represented the pomp and honour

of a regular hierarchy: they rejoiced in the increase of

proselytes, who were converted from the Zendavesta

to the gospel, from the secular to the monastic life;

and their zeal was stimulated by the presence of an

artful and formidable enemy. The Persian church

had been founded by the missionaries of Syria; and

their language, discipline, and doctrine, were closely

interwoven with its original frame. The Catholics

were elected and ordained by their own suffragans;

but their filial dependance on the patriarchs of Antioch

is attested by the canons of the oriental church." In

the Persian school of Edessa/ the rising generations

of the faithful imbibed their theological idiom; they

studied in the Syriac version the ten thousand volumes

of Theodore of Mopsuestia, and they revered the apo­

stolic faith and holy martyrdom of his disciple Nesto-

rius, whose person and language were equally unknown

1 See the Arabic canons of Nice in the translation of Abraham Eccheleneis,

Do. 37—40. Concil. torn. 2. p. 336, 336. edit. Venet. These vulgar titles, Ni-

cene and Arabic, are both apocryphal. The council of Nice enacted no more

than twenty canons; (Theodoret, Hist. Eccles. lib. 1. c. 8.) and the
remainder,

seventy or eighty, were collected from the synods of the Greek church. The Sy­

riac edition of Maruthas is no longer extant, (Asseman. Bibliot Oriental,
torn. 1.

p. 195. torn. 3. p. 74.) and the Arabic version, is marked with many recent
inter­

polations. Yet this code contains many curioua relics of ecclesiastical
discipline;

and since it is equally revered by all the eastern communions, it was pcobably

finished before the schism of the Nestorians and Jacobites. (Fabric. Bibliot.
Graec.

torn. 11. p. 363—367.)

y Theodore the reader (lib. 2. c. 5. 49. ad calcem Hist. Eccles.) has noticed

this Persian" school of Edessa. Its ancient splendour, and the two eras of its

downfal (A.D. 431 and 489.) are clearly discussed by Asscmanni. (Bibliotb.

Orient, torn. 2. p. 402. 3. p. 376. 378. 4. p. 70. 924.)

