CHAP. LIT. 497

sufficient allowance was provided for the indigent scho­

lars; and the merit or industry of the professors was re­

paid with adequate stipends. In every city the produc­

tion of Arabic literature were copied and collected by the

curiosity of the studious, and the vanity of the rich. A

private doctor refused the invitation of the sultan of Bo-

chara, because the carriage of his books would have re­

quired four hundred camels^ The royal library of the

Fatimites consisted of one hundred thousand manuscripts,

elegantly transcribed and splendidly bound, which were

lent, without jealousy or avarice, to the students of Cairo.

But this collection must appear moderate, if we can be­

lieve that the Ommiades of Spain had formed a library

of six hundred thousand volumes, forty-four of which

were employed in the mere catalogue. Their capital,

Cordova, with the adjacent towns of Malaga, Almeria,

and Murcia, had given birth to more than three hundred

writers, and above seventy public libraries were opened

in the cities of the Andalusian kingdom. The age of

Arabian learning continued about five hundred years,

till the great irruption of the Moguls, and was coeval

with the darkest and most slothful period of European

annals; but since the sun of science has arisen in the

west, it should seem that the oriental studies have lan­

guished and declined.11

Their real In the libraries of the Arabians, as in those of

progress j;ur0pel tae far greater part of the innumerable

sciences, volumes were possessed only of local value or

imaginary merit,' The shelves were crowded with ora­

tors and poets, whose style was adapted to the taste and

h These literary anecdotes are borrowed from the Bibliotheca Arabico-Hispana,

(torn. 9. p. 38. 71.201, 205!.) Leo Africanus, (ile Arab. Medicia et
Philosophis, in

Fabric. Bibliot. Grsx. torn. 13. p. 259—298. particularly 274.) and Renaudot,

(Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 274, 275. 536,537.) besides the chronological
remarks of

Abulpharagius.

'The Arabic catalogue of the Escurial will give a just idea of the proportion
of

the classes. In the library of Cairo, the MSS. of astronomy and medicine
amounted

^o six thousand five hundred, with two fair globes, the one of brass, the
other of

silver. (Bibliot. Arab. Hisp. torn. 1. p. 417.)

VOL. VI. 2 K

