122 ROMAN EMPJRE.

year of his age. The restoration of images, and the

final extirpation of the Iconoclasts, has endeared her

name to the devotion of the Greeks; but in the fervour

of religious zeal, Theodora entertained a grateful regard

for the memory and salvation of her husband. After

thirteen years of a prudent and frugal administration,

she perceived the decline of her influence; but the se­

cond Irene imitated only the virtues of her predecessor.

Instead of conspiring against the life or government of

her son, she retired, without a struggle, though not with­

out a murmur, to the solitude of private life, deploring

the ingratitude, the vices, and the inevitable ruin, of the

worthless youth.

Among the successors of Nero and Elagabalus, we

have not hitherto found the imitation of their vices, the

character of a Roman prince who considered pleasure as

the object of life, and virtue as the enemy of pleasure.

Whatever might have been the maternal care of Theo­

dora in the education of Michael III. her unfortunate

son was a king before he was a man. If the ambitious

mother laboured to check the progress of reason, she

could not cool the ebullition of passion; and her selfish

policy was justly repaid by the contempt and ingratitude

of the headstrong youth. At the age of eighteen, he

rejected her authority, without feeling his own incapa­

city to govern the empire and himself. With Theodora,

all gravity and wisdom retired from the court: their

place was supplied by the alternate dominion of vice

and folly; and it was impossible, without forfeiting the

public esteem, to acquire or preserve the favour of the

emperor. The millions of gold and silver which had

been accumulated for the service of the state, were la­

vished on the vilest of men, who flattered his passions

and shared his pleasures; and in a reign of thirteen

years, the richest of sovereigns was compelled to strip

the palace and the churches of their precious furniture.

Like Nero, he delighted in the amusements of the

theatre, and sighed to be surpassed in the accomplish1­

