456 ROMAN EMPIRE.

number of helmets and lances.' The most powerful of

his successors derived from the same kingdom the an­

nual tribute of twelve millions and forty-five thousand

dinars or pieces of gold, about six millions of sterling

money ;k a sum which, in the tenth century, most proba­

bly surpassed the united revenues of the Christiian mo-

narchs. His royal seat of Cordova contained six hun­

dred moschs, nine hundred baths, and two hundred

thousand houses: he gave laws to eighty cities of the

first, to three hundred of the second and third, order;

and the fertile banks of the Guadalquiver were adorned

with twelve thousand villages and hamlets. The Arabs

might exaggerate the truth, but they created and they

describe the most prosperous era of the riches, the cul­

tivation, and the populousness of Spain.1

Religious The wars of the Moslems were sanctified by

toleration. tne prophet; but among the various precepts

and examples of his life, the caliphs selected the lessons

of toleration that might tend to disarm the resistance of

the unbelievers. Arabia was the temple and patrimony

of the God of Mahomet; but he beheld with less jea­

lousy and affection the nations of the earth. The Poly-

theists and idolaters who were ignorant of his name,

might be lawfully extirpated by his votaries,"1 but a wise

'Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 2. p. 104. Casiri translates the original
testi­

mony of the historian Rasis, as it is alleged, in the Arabic (Biographia
Hispanica,

pars 9. But I am most exceedingly surprised at the address, Principibus cste-

risque Christianis Hispanis suis CeattUa. The name of Castells was unknown in

the eighth, century ; the kingdom was not erected till the year 1022, a
hundred

years after the time of Rasis, (Bibliot. torn. 2. p. 330.) and the appellation
was

always expressive, not of a tributary province, but of a line of outlet
independent

of the Moorish yoke. (D'Anville, Etats de 1'Europe, p. 166—170.) Had Casiri

been a critic, he would have cleared a difficulty, perhaps of his own making.

k Cardonne, torn. 1. p. 337, 338. He computes the revenue at one hundred and

thirty millions of French livres. The entire picture of peace and prosperity
relieve!

the bloody uniformity of the Moorish annals.

1 I am happy enough to possess a splendid and interesting work, which has only

been distributed in presents by the court of Madrid; Bibliatheca Arabico-
Hifpawi

Eicuriatenris, opera, et studio Michaelis Casiri, Syro-Maronila : Marriti, in
folio, lamia

prior, 1760, towns posterior, 1770. The execution of this work does honour to
the

Spanish press: the MSS. to the number of one thnusandeighthundred and fifty-
one,

are judiciously classed by the editor, and his copious extracts throw tome
light

on the Mahometan literature and history of Spain. These relics are now secure,

but the task has been supinely delayed, till, in the year 1671, a fire
consumed the

greatest part of the Escurial library, rich in the spoils of Grenada and
Morocco.

10 The Harbii, as they are styled, qui tolerari neqneunt, are, 1. Those who,
tmvin

