CHAP. LI. 371

courage (said the caliph), your life is safe till you have

drank this water: the crafty satrap accepted the assur­

ance, and instantly dashed the vase against the ground.

Omar would have avenged the deceit; but his compa­

nions represented the sanctity of an oath; and the speedy

conversion of Harmozan entitled him not only to a free

pardon, but even to a stipend of two thousand pieces of

gold. The administration of Persia was regulated by an

actual survey of the people, the cattle, and the fruits of

the earth;' and this monument, which attests the vigi-'-

lance of the caliphs, might have instructed the philoso­

phers of every age.k

Death of The flight of Yezdegerd had carried him be-

the last yond the Oxus, and as far as the Jaxartes, two

A.D.' 65i. rivers1 of ancient and modern renown, which de­

scend from the mountains of India towards the Caspian

sea. He was hospitably entertained by Tarkhan, prince

of Fargana,"' a fertile province on the Jaxartes; the king

of Samarcand, with the Turkish tribes of Sogdiana and

Scythia, were moved by the lamentations and promises

of the fallen monarch; and he solicited by a suppliant

embassy, the more solid and powerful friendship of the

emperor of China." The virtuous Taitsong,0 the first of

the dynasty of the Tang, may be justly compared with

the Antonines of Rome: his people enjoyed the blessings

1 After the conquest of Persia, Theophanes adds, aurtt it TW x"j'':':
txixti/crev

Ov/uofo; avaj.pa4.rvti wacray TUT iiv tuna cuuv/unny. rynnt it n avayfttyv HSU
atSfxvai

MI vrrsm xai ifurta. (Chronograph, p. 383.)

k Amidst our meagre relations, I must regret, that d'Herbelot has not found
and

used a Persian translation of Tabari, enriched, as he says, with many extracts

from the native historians of the Ghebers or Magi. (Bibliotheque Orientale,

p. 1014.)

1 The most authentic accounts of the two rivers, the Sihon (Jaxartes) and the

Cihon (Oxus), may be found in Sherif al Kdrisi, (Geograph. Nubiens. p. 138.)

Abulfeda, (Descript. Chorasan. in Hudson, torn. 3. p. 23.) Abulghazi Khan, who

reigned on their banks, (Hist. Genealogique des Tartars, p. 32. 57. 766.) and
the

Turkish Geographer, a MS. in the king of France's library. (Eiamen Critique

desHistoriens d'Alexandra, p. 194—360.)

™ The territory of Fargana is described by Abulfeda, p. 76,77.

» Eo redegit angustiarum eundem regem exsulem, ut Turcici regis et Sogdtoni,

et Sinensis, auxilia missis literis imploraret. (Abulfed. Annal. p. 74.) The
con­

nexion of the Persian and Chinese history is illustrated by Freret (Mern. de

i'Academie, torn. 16. p. 845—255.) and de Guignes. (Hist, des Huns, torn. 2.
p.

54—59. and for the geography of the borders, torn. 2. p. 1—43.)

• Hist. Sinica, p. 41—46. in the third part of the Relations Curieuses of
Thevenot.

2 B 2

