34 ROMAN EMPIRE.

would be still involved in theheresyof the Monophysites,

if the emperor's horse had not fortunately stumbled;

Theodosius expired, his orthodox sister, Pulcheria, with

a nominal husband, succeeded to the throne; Chrysa-

phius was burnt, Dioscorus was disgraced, the exiles

were recalled, and the tome of Leo was subscribed by the

oriental bishops. Yet the pope was disappointed in his

favourite project of a Latin council: he disdained to pre­

side in the Greek synod, which was speedily assembled,

at Nice in Bithynia; his legates required in a peremp­

tory tone the presence of the emperor; and the wary

fathers were transported to Chalcedon under the imme­

diate eye of Marcian and the senate of Constantinople.

A quarter of a mile from the Thracian Bosphorus, the

church of St. Euphemia was built on the summit of a

gentle though lofty ascent: the triple structure was ce­

lebrated as a progidy of art, and the boundless prospect

of the land and sea might have raised the mind of a sec­

tary to the contemplation of the God of the universe.

Six hundred and thirty bishops were ranged in order

in the nave of the church; but the patriarchs of the east

were preceded by the legates, of whom the third was a

simple priest: and the place of honour was reserved for

twenty laymen of consular or senatorian rank. The

gospel was ostentatiously displayed in the centre, but

the rule of faith was denned by the papal and imperial

ministers, who moderated the thirteen sessions of the

council of Chalcedon.q Their partial interposition si­

lenced the intemperate shouts and execrations, which

degraded the episcopal gravity: but, on the formal ac­

cusation of the legates, Dioscorus was compelled to de­

scend from his throne to the rank of a criminal, already

i The acts of the Council of Chalcedon (Concil. torn. 4. p. 761^9071) compre­

hend thoseof Epheses, (p, 890—1189.) which again comprise the synod of Con­

stantinople under Flavian; (p. 930—1072.) and it requires some attention to
dis­

engage this double involution. The whole business of Eutyches, Flavian, and

Dioscorus, is related by Evagrius (lib. 1. c. 9.—12. and lib, 2. c. 1—4.) and
Libe-

ratus. •(Brev. c. 11—14.) Once more, and almost for the last time, I appeal to
the

diligence of Tillemont. (Mern. Eccles. torn. 15.p. 479—719.) Theanualsof U.no­

nius and Pagi will accompany me much farther on my long and laborious journey.

