CHAP. XLVIII. 140

his valiant but unsuccessful efforts to resist the progress

of the Turks. His defeat and captivity inflicted a deadly

wound on the Byzantine monarchy of the east; and

after he was released from the chains of the sultan, he

vainly sought his wife and his subjects. His wife had

been thrust into a monastery, and the subjects of Roma-

nus had embraced the rigid maxim of the civil law, that

a prisoner in the hands of the enemy is deprived, as by

the stroke of death, of all the public and private rights

Michael o^ a citizen. In the general consternation, the

yn. Para- Csesar John asserted the indefeasible right of

pinnces, °

Androni- his three nephews: Constantinople listened to

staLtine°n his voice; and the Turkish captive was pro-

XIL claimed in the capital, and received on the

A.D.ion, frontier, as an enemy of the republic. Romanus

August. was not more fortunate in domestic than in

foreign war: the loss of two battles compelled him to

yield, on the assurance of fair and honorable treatment;

but his enemies were devoid of faith or humanity; and,

after the cruel extinction of his sight, his wounds were

left to bleed and corrupt, till in a few daysjie was re­

lieved from a state of misery. Under the triple reign

of the house of Ducas, the two younger brothers were

reduced to the vain honours of the purple; but the

eldest, the pusillanimous Michael, was incapable of

sustaining the Roman sceptre; and his surname of Pa-

rapinaces denotes the reproach which he shared with an

avaricious favourite, who enhanced the price, and di­

minished the measure, of wheat. In the school of Psel-

lus, and after the example of his mother, the son of

Eudocia made some proficiency in philosophy and

rhetoric; but his character was degraded, rather than

ennobled, by the virtues of a monk, and the learning of

a sophist. Strong in the contempt of their sovereign

and their own esteem, two generals at the head of the

European and Asiatic legions assumed the purple at

Adrianople and Nice. Their revolt was in the same

month; they bore the same name of Nicephorus; but

