354 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the law are the guides of their conscience and the ora­

cles of their faith. From the Atlantic to the Ganges,

the Koran is acknowledged as the fundamental code,

not only of theology, but of civil and criminal jurispru­

dence; and the laws which regulate the actions and the

property of mankind, are guarded by the infallible and

immutable sanction of the will of God. This religions

servitude is attended with some practical disadvantage;

the illiterate legislator had been often misled by his own

prejudices and those of his country; and the institutions

of the Arabian desert may be ill adapted to the wealth

and numbers of Ispahan and Constantinople. On these

occasions, the cadhi respectfully places on his head the

holy volume, and substitutes a dexterous interpretation

more apposite to the principles of equity, and the man­

ners and policy of the times.

His beneficial or pernicious influence on the

His merit *~ ,

towards Ms public happiness is the last consideration in the

couutiy' character of Mahomet. The most bitter or most

bigoted of his Christian or Jewish foes, will surely allow

that he assumed a false commission to inculcate a salu­

tary doctrine, less perfect only than their own. He pi­

ously supposed, as the basis of his religion, the truth and

sanctity of their prior revelations, the virtues and mira­

cles of their founders. The idols of Arabia were broken

before the throne of God; the blood of human victims

was expiated by prayer, and fasting, and alms, the laud­

able or innocent arts of devotion; and his rewards and

punishments of a future life were painted by the images

most congenial to an ignorant or carnal generation. Ma­

homet was perhaps incapable of dictating a moral and

political system for the use of his countrymen: but he

breathed among the faithful a spirit of charity and friend­

ship, recommended the practice of the social virtues, and

checked, by his laws and precepts, the thirst of revenge

and the oppression of widows and orphans. The hostile

tribes were united in faith and obedience, and the valour

