CHAP. LI. 367

with art, or ostentatiously displayed: the gold and silver,

the various wardrobes and precious furniture, surpassed

(says Abulfeda) the estimate of fancy or numbers; and

another historian defines the untold and almost infinite

mass, by the fabulous computation of three thousands

of thousands of thousands of pieces of gold." Some

minute though curious facts represent the contrast of

riches and ignorance. From the remote islands of the

Indian ocean,-a large provision of camphireb had been

imported, which is employed with a mixture of wax to

illuminate the palaces of the east. Strangers to the name

and properties of that odoriferous gum, the Saracens,

mistaking it for salt, mingled the camphire in their bread,

and were astonished at the bitterness of the taste. One

of the apartments of the palace was decorated with a

carpet of silk, sixty cubits in length, and as many in

breadth: a paradise or garden was depictured on the

ground; the flowers, fruits, and shrubs, were imitated

by tbe figures of the gold embroidery, and the colours of

the precious stones; and the ample square was encircled

by a variegated and verdant border. The Arabian

general persuaded his soldiers to relinquish their claim,

in the reasonable hope that the eyes of the caliph would

be delighted with the splendid workmanship of nature

and industry. Regardless of the merit of art and the

pomp of royalty, the rigid Omar divided the prize among

his brethren of Medina: the picture was destroyed; but

such was the intrinsic value of the materials, that the

snare of Ali alone was sold for twenty thousand drachms.

A mule that carried away the tiara and cuirass, the belt

and bracelets of Chosroes, was overtaken by the pur­

• Monte vix potest numerove comprehend! quanta spolia nosl ris ces-

serint. Abulfeda, p. 69. Yet I still suspect, that the extravagant numbers of

Elmac in may be the error, not of the teit, but of t Uu version. The best
translators

from the Greek, for instance, 1 find to be very poor arithmeticians.

b The Camphire-tree grows in, China and Japan; but many hundred weight of

those meaner sorts are exchanged for a single pound of the more precious gum
of

Borneo and Sumatra (Haynal, Hist. Philosoph. torn. 1. p. 362—365. Dictionnaire

tl'Hist. Naturelle par Bomare; Millar's Gardener's Dictionary.) These may be

the islands of the first climate from whence the Arabians imported their
camphire.

(Geograph. Nub..p. 34, 35. D'Herbelot, p. 232.)

