384 ROMAN EMPIRE.

tent. Damascus would have acquiesced in the trial of

Aiznadin, as a final and peremptory sentence between

the emperor and the caliph; her courage was rekindled

by the example and authority of Thomas, a noble Greek,

illustrious in a private condition by the alliance of Hera-

clius.™ The tumult and illumination of the night pro­

claimed the design of the morning sally; and the

Christian hero, who affected to despise the enthusiasm

of the Arabs, employed the resource of a similar super­

stition. At the principal gate, in the sight of both

armies, a lofty crucifix was erected; the bishop, with

his clergy, accompanied the march, and laid the volume

of the New Testament before the image of Jesus; and

the contending parties were scandalized or edified by a

prayer, that the Son of God would defend his servants

and vindicate his truth. The battle raged with inces­

sant fury; and the dexterity of Thomas," an incompara­

ble archer, was fatal to the boldest Saracens, till their

death was revenged by a female heroine. The wife of

Aban, who had followed him to the holy war, embraced

her expiring husband. Happy (said she), happy art

thou, my dear: thou art gone to thy Lord who first joined

us together, and then parted us asunder. I will revenge

thy death, and endeavour to the utmost of my power to

come to the place where thou art, because I love thee.

Henceforth shall no man ever touch me more, for I have

dedicated my self to the service of God. Without a groan,

without a tear, she washed the corpse of her husband,

and buried him with the usual rites. Then grasping the

manly weapons, which in her native land she was ac­

customed to wield, the intrepid widow of Aban sought

the place where his murderer fought in the thickest of

i

"' Vanity prompted the Arabs to believe, that Thomas was the son-in-law of the

emperor. We know the children of Heraclius by his two wives; and his august

daughter would not have married in exile at Damascus. (See Ducange, Farn. liv-

zantin.p. 118,119.) Had be been less religious, I might only suspect the
legitimacy

of the damsel.

» Al Wakidi (Ockley, p. 101.) says "with poisoned arrows;" but this savage

invention is so repugnant to the practice of the Greeks and Romans, that I
must

suspect, on this occasion, the malevolent credulity of the Saracens.

