70 ROMAN EMPIRE.

asserted, as they now assert, their indefeasible right to

the title, the rank, and the prerogatives, of the patriarch

of Antioch: under the milder yoke of the infidels, they

reside about a league from Merdin, in the pleasant mo­

nastery of Zapharan, which they have embellished with

cells, aqueducts, and plantations. The secondary, though

honourable, place is filled by the maphrian, who, in his

station at Mosul itself, defies the Nestorian Catholic,

with whom he contests the supremacy of the east. Un­

der the patriarch and the maphrian, one hundred and

fifty archbishops and bishops have been counted in the

different ages of the Jacobite church; but the order of

the hierarchy is relaxed or dissolved, and the greater

part of their diocesses is confined to the neighbourhood

of the Euphrates and the Tigris. The cities of Aleppo

and Amida, which are often visited by the patriarch,

contain some wealthy merchants and industrious me­

chanics, but the multitude derive their scanty sustenance

from their daily labour: and poverty, as well as super­

stition, may impose their excessive fasts,—five annual

lents, during which both the clergy and laity abstain

not only from flesh or eggs, but even from the taste of

wine, of oil, and of fish. Their present numbers are es­

teemed from fifty to fourscore thousand souls, the rem-

nantofa populous church, which has gradually decreased

undertheoppression of twelve centuries. Yetin that long

period, some strangers of merit have been converted

to the Monophysite faith, and a Jew was the father

of Abulpharagius,p primate of the east, so truly eminent

both in his life and death. In his life, he was an elegant

writer of the Syriac and Arabic tongues, a poet, physi­

cian, and historian, a subtle philosopher, and a mode­

rate divine. In his death, his funeral was attended by

his rival the Nestorian patriarch, with a train of Greeks

P The account of his person and writings is perhaps the most curious article
in

the Bibliotheca of Assemannus. (torn. 2. p. 244—321, under the name of Grego-

rius Bar-Hebraus.) La Crote (Christianiime d'Ethiope, p. 53—63.) ridicules the

prejudice of the Spaniards against the Jewish blood, which secretly defiles
their

church and state.

