270 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Mahomet, during which their swords were religiously

sheathed both in foreign and domestic hostility; and

this partial truce is more strongly expressive of the

habits of anarchy and warfare.1"

Their so- But ^e spi"t of rapine and revenge was at-

ciaj.quaii- tempered by the milder influence of trade and

Scations r J—.. ...

andvir- literature. The solitary peninsula is encom-

iiea' passed by the most civilized nations of the an­

cient world: the merchant is the friend of mankind:

and the annual caravans imported the first seeds of

knowledge and politeness into the cities, and even the

camps of the desert. Whatever may be the pedigree

of the Arabs, their language is derived from the same

original stock with the Hebrew, the Syriac, and the

Chaldean tongues; the , independence of the tribes

was marked by their peculiar dialects ;q but each, after

their own, .allowed a just preference to the pure and

perspicuous idiom of Mecca. In Arabia as well.as in

Greece, the perfection of language outstripped the re­

finement of manners; and her speech could diversify

the fourscore names of honey, the two hundred of a

serpent, ,the five hundred of a lion, the thousand of a

sword, at a time when this copious dictionary was in­

trusted to the memory of an illiterate people. The

monuments of the Homerites were inscribed with an

obsolete and mysterious character; but the Cufic let-

tersi the groundwork of- the present alphabet, were in­

vented on the banks of the Euphrates; and the recent

invention was taught at Mecca by a stranger who set­

tled in that city after the birth of Mahomet. The arts

i' I'rocopins (de Bell. Persic. lih. I. c. 16.) places tin- tico boly months
about the

summer solstice. The Arabians consecrate four months of the year—the first,
se-

rcnth, eleventh, and twelfth; and pretend, that in a long series of ages the
trace

was infringed only four or six times. (Sale's Preliminary Discourse, p.
147—150.

and Notes on the ninth chapter of the Koran, p. 154, &c: Casiri, Bibllot ,
Hiapano-

Arabica, torn. 2. p. 20, 21.)

i Arrian, in the second century, remarks (in Peripla Maris Erythraei, p. 12.)

the partial or total difierence of the dialects of the Arabs. Their language
and

letters are copiously treated by Pocock, (Specimen, p. 150—154.) Casiri, (Bi-

bliot. Hispano-Arabica, torn. 1. p. 1. 83. 292. torn. 2. p. 25, &c.) and
Niebnhr.

(Description de 1'Arabic, p. 72—86.) I pass slightly; I am not fond of repeat­

ing words like a parrot.

