410 ROMAN EMPIRE.

temper of a chief the valour of an adventurous soldier.

In a visit to Medina, the caliph expressed a wish to sur­

vey the sword which had cut down so many Christian

warriors; the son of Aasi unsheathed a short and ordi­

nary scimitar; and as he perceived the surprise of Omar,

Alas (said the modest Saracen), the sicord itself, without

the arm of its master, is neither sharper nor more weighty

than the sword of Pharezdak the poet* After the con­

quest of Egypt he was recalled by the jealousy of the

caliph Othman; but in the subsequent troubles, the am­

bition of a soldier, a statesman, and an orator, emerged

from a private station. His powerful support, both in

council and in the field, established the throne of the

Ommiades; the administration and revenue of Egypt

were restored by the gratitude of Moawiyah to a faithful

friend who had raised himself above the rank of a sub­

ject; and Amrou ended his days in the palace and city

which he had founded on the banks of the Nile. His

dying speech to his children is celebrated by the Ara­

bians as a model of eloquence and wisdom: he deplored

the errors of his youth; but if the penitent was still in­

fected by the vanity of a poet, he might exaggerate the

venom and mischief of his impious compositions.8

invasion From his camp, in Palestine, Amrou had sur-

A-ofsss. prised or anticipated the caliph's leave for the

June. invasion of Egypt.11 The magnanimous Omar

trusted in his God and his sword, which had shaken the

thrones of Chosroes and Caesar; but when he compared

the slender force of the Moslems with the greatness of

r Tliis saying is preserved by Pocock, (Not. ad Carmen Tograi, p. 184.) and

justly applauded by Mr. Harris. (Philosophical Arrangements, p. 350.)

* For the life and character of Amrou, see Ockley, (Hist, of the Saracens, »ol. t.  
p. 28. 63. 94. 328. 349. 344. and to the end of the volume; vol. t. p. 51. 55.
57.

74.110—112. 162.) and Otter, (Mern. de 1'Academic des Inscriptions, torn. II.

p. 131,132.) The readers of Tacitus may aptly compare Vespasian and Mucianus,

with Moawiyah and Amrou. Yet the resemblance is still more in the situation,

than in the characters of the men.

h Al Wakidi had likewise composed a separate history of the conquest of Egypt,

which Mr. Ockley could never procure; and his own inquiries (vol. 1. p.
344—368.)

have added very little to the original text of Eutycbius (Annal. torn. 2. p.
296—

323. vera. Pocock), the Melchite patriarch of Alexandria, who lived three
hundred

years after the revolution.

