CHAP. L. 315

two of the most obnoxious prisoners were punished with

death; and the ransom of the others, four thousand

drachms of silver, compensated in some degree the escape

of the caravan. But it was in vain that the camels of

Abu Sophian explored a new road through the desert

and along the Euphrates: they were overtaken by the

diligence of the Mussulmans; and wealthy must have

been the prize, if twenty thousand drachms could be set

apart for the fifth of the apostle. The resentment of the

public and private loss stimulated Abu Sophian to col­

lect a body of three thousand men, seven hundred of

whom were armed with cuirasses, and two hundred were

mounted on horseback; three thousand camels attended

his march; and his wife Henda, with fifteen matrons of

Mecca, incessantly sounded their timbrels to animate the

or ohud, troops, and to magnify the greatness of Hobal, the

A. D. ess. most popular deity of the Caaba. The standard

of God and Mahomet was upheld by nine hundred and

fifty believers: the disproportion of numbers was not

more alarming than in the field of Beder; and their pre­

sumption of victory prevailed against the divine and hu­

man sense of the apostle. The second battle was fought

on mount Ohud, six miles to the north of Medina :T the

Koreish advanced in the form of a crescent: and the

right wing of cavalry was led by Caled, the fiercest and

most successful of the Arabian warriors. The troops of

Mahomet were skilfully posted on the declivity of the

hill; and their rear was guarded by a detachment of

fifty archers. The weight of their charge impelled and

broke the centre of the idolaters; but in the pursuit they

lost the advantage of their ground: the archers deserted

their station: the Mussulmans were tempted by the

spoil, disobeyed their general, and disordered their ranks.

The intrepid Caled, wheeling his cavalry on their flank

and rear, exclaimed, with a loud voice, that Mahomet

was slain. He was indeed wounded in the face with a

'Geograph. Nubiensis, p. 47,

