218 ROMAN EMPIRE.

eastern ^e translation of the empire to the less ortho-

^re;74 dox Charlemagne. They were compelled to

—BOO. choose between the rival nations; religion was

not the sole motive of their choice; and while they dis­

sembled the failings of their friends, they beheld, with

reluctance and suspicion, the Catholic virtues of their

foes. iThe difference of language and manners had per­

petuated the enmity of the two capitals; and they were

alienated from each other by the hostile opposition of

seventy years. In that schism the Romans had tasted of

freedom, and the popes of sovereignty; their submission

would have exposed them to the revenge of a jealous

tyrant; and the revolution of Italy had betrayed the im­

potence, as well as the tyranny, of the Byzantine court.

The Greek emperors had restored the images, but they

had not restored the Calabrian estates'1 and the Illyrian

diocess/ which the Iconoclasts had torn away from the

successors of St. Peter; and pope Hadrian threatens

them with a sentence of excommunication unless they

speedily abjure this practical heresy.* The Greeks were

now orthodox, but their religion might be tainted by

the breath of the reigning monarch: the Franks were

now contumacious; but a discerning eye might discern

their approaching conversion from the use, to the adora­

tion, of images. The name of Charlemagne was stained

by the polemic acrimony of his scribes; but the con­

i Theophanes (p. 343.) specifies those of Sicily and Calabria, which yielded
an

annual rent of three talents and a half of gold (perhaps seven thousand pounds

sterling). Liutprand more pompously enumerates the patrimonies of the Roman

church in Greece, Judea, Persia, Mesopotamia, Babylonia, Egypt, and Libya,

which were detained by the injustice of the Greek emperor. (Legat. ad Nicepho-

mm, in Script. Rerum Italicarum, torn. 2. pars. 1. p. 481.)

r The great diocess of the eastern Illyricum, with Apulia, Calabria, and
Sicily;

(Thomassin, Discipline de 1'Eglise, torn. 1. p. 145.) by the confession of the
Greeks,

the patriarch of Constantinople had detached from Rome the metropolitans of
Thes-

salonica, Athens, Corinth, Nicopolis, and Patra; (Luc. Holsten. Geograph.
Sacra,

(p. 22.) and his spiritual conquests extended to Naples and Amalphi.
(Giannone,

Istoria Civile di Napoli, torn. 1. p. 517—524. Pagi, A. D. 730. no. 11.)

• In hoc ostenditur, quia ex uno capitulo ab errore reversis, in aliis duobus,
in

eodem (was it the same ?) permaneant errore . . . . de diocesi S. R. E. seu de
pa-

trimoniis interum increpantes commonemus, ut si ea restituere noluerit
hereticum

eum pro hujusmodi enore persevantii decememus; (Epist. Hadrian. Papae ad Ca-

rolum Magnum, in Concil. torn. 8. p. 1598.) to which he adds a reason, most

directly opposite to his conduct, that he preferred the salvation of souls and
rule

of faith to the goods of this transitory world.

