CHAP. XLVIII. 97

their sovereign; but these servile Greeks were unworthy

and regardless of freedom; and in his mind, the lesson

of an hour was quickly erased by the prejudices of the

age and the habits of despotism. He retained only a

jealous fear lest the senate or people should one day

invade thg right of primogeniture, and seat his brother

Theodosius on an equal throne. By the imposition of

holy orders, the grandson of Heraclius was disqualified

for the purple; but this ceremony, which seemed to

profane the sacraments of the church, was insufficient

to appease the suspicions of the tyrant, and the death

of the deacon Theodosius could alone expiate the

crime of his royal birth. His murder was avenged by

the imprecations of the people, and the assassin, in the

fulness of power, was driven from his capital into volun­

tary and perpetual exile. Constans embarked for Greece;

and, as if he meant to retort the abhorrence which he de­

served, he is said, from the imperial galley, to have spit

against the walls of his native city. After passing the

winter at Athens, he sailed to Tarentum in Italy, visited

Rome, and concluded a long pilgrimage of disgrace and

sacrilegious rapine, by fixing his residence at Syracuse.

But if Constans could fly from his people, he could not

fly from himself. The remorse of his conscience created

a phantom who pursued him by land and sea, by day

and by night; and the Visionary Theodosius, present­

ing to his lips a cup of blood, said, or seemed to say,

Drink, brother, drink; a sure emblem of the aggrava­

tion of his guilt, since he had received from the hands

of the deacon the mystic cup of the blood of Christ.

Odious to himself and to mankind, Constans perished

by domestic, perhaps by episcopal, treason, in the capi­

tal of Sicily. A servant who waited in the bath, after

pouring warm water on his head, struck him violently

with the vase. He fell, stunned by the blow, and

suffocated by the water; and his attendants, who won­

dered at the tedious delay, beheld with indifference

VOL. VI. H

