CHAP. LI 409

merchant of Edessa, who is said to have laden nine hun­

dred camels with the weight of the brass metal: an enor­

mous weight, though we should include the hundred

colossal figures,0 and the three thousand statues, which

adorned the prosperity of the city of the sun.

Egypt. II. The conquest of Egypt may be explained

and aie of ty ^e character of the victorious Saracen, one of

Amiou. the first of nis nation, in an age when the meanest

of the brethren was exalted above his nature by the spi­

rit of enthusiasm. The birth of Amrou was at once base

and illustrious: his mother, a notorious prostitute, was

unable to decide among five of the Koreish; but the

proof of resemblance adjudged the child to Aasi, the

oldest of her lovers.d The youth of Amrou was impelled

by the passions and prejudices of his kindred: his poetic

genius was exercised in satirical verses against the per­

son and doctrine of Mahomet; his dexterity was em­

ployed by the reigning faction to pursue the religious

exiles who had taken refuge in the court of the Ethio­

pian king.* Yet he returned from this embassy a secret

proselyte; his reason or his interest determined him to

renounce the worship of idols; he escaped from Mecca

with his friend Caled, and the prophet of Medina enjoyed

at the same moment the satisfaction of embracing the

two firmest champions of his cause. The impatience of

Amrou to lead the armies of the faithful was checked by

the reproof of Omar, who advised him not to seek power

and dominion, since he who is a subject to-day, may be

a prince to-morrow. Yet his merit was not overlooked

by the two first successors of Mahomet; they were in­

debted to his arms for the conquest of Palestine; and in

all the battles and sieges of Syria, he united with the

c Centum colossi ahum nobilitaturi locum, says Pliny, with his usual spirit.

Hist , Natur. 34.18.

d We learn this anecdote from a spirited old woman, who reviled to their faces

the caliph and his friend. She was encouraged by the silence of Amrou and thn

liberality of Moawiyah. (Abulfeda, Annal. Moslem, p. 111.)

» Gagnier. Vie de Mahomet, torn. 2. p. 46, &c. who quotes the Abyssinian his­

tory, or romance of Abdel Balcides. Yet the fact of the embassy and ambassador

may be allowed.

