CHAP, XLVII. 57

Union of Before the end of the seventh century, the

and^iS creed of the incarnation, which had been de-

churches, fined at Rome and Constantinople, was uniform­

ly preached in the remote islands of Britain and Ire­

land,1' the same ideas were entertained, or rather the

same words were repeated, by all the Christians whose

liturgy was performed in the Greek or the Latin tongue.

Their numbers, and visible splendour, bestowed an im­

perfect claim to the appellation of Catholics: but in the

east, they were marked with the less honourable name

of Mdchites or royalists ;r of men, whose faith, instead

of resting on the basis of Scripture, reason, or tradition,

had been established, and was still maintained, by the

arbitrary power of a temporal monarch. Their adver­

saries might allege the words of the fathers of Constan­

tinople, who profess themselves the slaves of the king;

and they might relate, with malicious joy, how the de­

crees of Chalcedon had been inspired and reformed by

the emperor Marcian and his virgin bride. The pre­

vailing faction will naturally inculcate the duty of sub­

mission, nor is it less natural that dissenters should feel

and assert the principles of freedom. Under the rod of

persecution, the Nestorians and Monophysites degene­

rated into rebels and fugitives; and the most ancient

* In the Lateran synod of 679, Wilfrid, an Anglo-Saxon bishop, subscribed pro  
omni aquilonali parte Britannia et Hibemiac, quae ab Anglorum et Brittonum,
nee-

non Scotorum et Pictorum gentibus colebantur. (Eddius.in Vit. St. Wilfrid,
c.31.

apud Pagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 88.) Theodore (magnffl insulae Britanniae
archiepis-

copus et pbilosophus) was long expected at Home; (Concil. torn. 7. p. 714.)
but he

contented himself with holding (A. D. 680.) his provincial synod of Hatfield,
in

which he received the decrees of pope Martin and the first Lateran council
against

the MonotheKtes. (Concil. torn. 7. p. 597, &c.) Theodore, a monk of Tarsus in
CiU-

cia, had heen named to the primacy of Britain by pope Vitalian (A. D. 668, see

Baronius and Pagi), whose esteem for his learning and piety was tainted by
some

distrust of his national character—ne quid contrarium veritati fidei, Gracorum

more, in ecclesiam cui praesset introduceret. The Cilician was sent from Rome

to Canterbury under the tuition of an African guide. (Bedic Hist. Eccles.
Anglorum,

lib. 4. c. 1.) He adhered to the Roman doctrine ; and the same creed of the
incar­

nation has been uniformly transmitted from Theodore to the modem primates,

whose sound understandings are perhaps seldom engaged with that abstruse
mystery.

'This name, unknown till the tenth century, appears to be of Syriac origin. It

was invented by the Jacobites, and eagerly adopted by the Nestorians and Maho­

metans; but it wasaccepted without shame by the Catholics, and is frequently
used

in the Annals of Eutychius. (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 507, &c.
torn. 3.

p. 355. Renandot. Hist. Patriarch. Alexandrin. p. 119.) 'H/JU; JcuXw -mi
Bz7i\tai;,

was the acclamation of the fathers of Constantinople. (Concil. tom. 7. p.
765.)

