CHAP. LI. 433

the ocean for the purple shell-fish. The fearless Akbah

plunged into the heart of the country, traversed the wil­

derness in which his successors erected the splendid ca­

pitals of Fez and Morocco," and at length penetrated to

the verge of the Atlantic and the great desert. The river

Sus descends from the western sides of mount Atlas, fer­

tilizes, like the Nile, the adjacent soil, and falls into the

sea at a moderate distance from the Canary, or Fortu­

nate, islands. Its banks were inhabited by the last of the

Moors, a race of savages, without laws, or discipline, or

religion; they were astonished by the strange and irre­

sistible terrors of the oriental arms; and, as they pos­

sessed neither gold nor silver, the richest spoil was the

beauty of the female captives, some of whom were after­

ward sold for a thousand pieces of gold. The career,

though not the zeal, of Akbah was checked by the pros­

pect of a boundless ocean. He spurred his horse into the

waves, and raising his eyes to heaven, exclaimed with the

tone of a fanatic—Great God! if my course were not

stopped by this sea, I would still go on, to the unknown

kingdoms of the west, preaching the unity of thy holy

name, and putting to the sword the rebellious nations

who worship any other gods than thee.f Yet this Ma­

hometan Alexander, who sighed for new worlds, was un­

able to preserve his recent conquests. By the universal

defection of the Greeks and Africans, he was recalled

from the shores of the Atlantic, and the surrounding mul­

titudes left him only the resource of an honourable death.

The last scene was dignified by an example of national

virtue. An ambitious chief, who had disputed the com­

OT Linnaanname; nor will I decide whether the citrum be the orange or the
lemon.

Saltnasius appears to exhaust the subject, but he too involves himself in the
web of

hu disorderly erudition. (Plinian. Exercitat. torn. 2. p. 666, &c.)

'° Leo African, fol. 16, verso. Marmot, torn. 2. p. 28. This province, the
first

scene of the exploits and greatness of the iherift, is often mentioned in the
curious

history of that dynasty at the end of the third volume of Marmol, Description
de

rAfrique. The third vol. of the Recherches Historiques sur les Maures (lately

published at Paris), illustrates the history and geography of the kingdoms of
Fez

and Morocco.

v Otter (p. 119.) has given the strong tone of fanaticism to this exclamation,

which Cardonne (p. 37.) has softened to a pious wish of preaching the Koran.
Yet

they had both the same text of Novairi before their eyes.

VOL. VI. 2 F

