CHAP. LI. 413

and drove the remnant of the Greeks to their boats, and

the isle of Rouda. The spot was afterward recom­

mended to the conqueror by the easy communication

with the gulf and the peninsula of Arabia: the remains

of Memphis were deserted; the tents of the Arabs were

converted into permanent habitations: and the first

mosch was blessed by the presence of fourscore compa­

nions of Mahomet."1 A new city arose in their camp on

the eastward bank of the Nile; and the contiguous

quarters of Babylon and Fostat are confounded in their

present decay by the appellation of old Misrah or Cairo,

of which they form an extensive suburb. But the name

of Cairo, the town of victory, more strictly belongs to

the modern capital, which was founded in the tenth

century by the Fatimite caliphs. n It has gradually re­

ceded from the river; but the continuity of buildings

may be traced by an attentive eye from the monuments

of Sesostris to those of Saladin."

Voluntary Yet the Arabs, after a glorious and profitable

submis- enterprise, must have retreated to the desert, had

the Copts they not found a powerful alliance in the heart

ac0b of the country. The rapid conquest of Alexan-

A. D. ess. <l€r was assisted by the superstition and revolt of

the natives; they abhorred their Persian oppressors, the

disciples of the Magi, who had burnt the temples of

Egypt, and feasted with sacrilegious appetite on the

flesh of the god Apis.p After a period of ten centuries

« Murtacli, Merveilles de 1'Egypte, 243 — 259. He expatiates on the subject
with

the zeal and minuteness of a citizen and a bigot, and his local traditions
have a

strong air of truth and accuracy.

» D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 233.

0 The position of New and Old Cairo is -well known, and has been often de­

scribed. Two writers, who were intimately acquainted with ancient and modern

Egypt, have fixed, after a learned inquiry, the city of Memphis at Gitth,
directly

opposite the Old Cairo. (Sicard, Nouveaux Memoircs des Missions du Levant,

torn. 6. p. 5, 6. Shaw's Observations and Travels, p. 39o — 304.) Yet we may
not

disregard the authority or the arguments of Pococlt, (vol. 1. p. 33—41.)
Niebuhr,

(Voyage, torn. 1. p. 77 — 106.) and, above all, of d'Anville, Description de
1'Egypte,

p. 1ll, 112. 130—149.) who have removed Memphis towards the village of Mo-

hannah, some miles farther to the south. In their heat, the disputants have
forgot

that the ample space of a metropolis coven and annihilates the far greater
part of

the controversy.

f See Herodotus, lib. 2. c. 27—29, /Elian Hist. Var. lib. 4. c, 8. Suidas in
O^tf,

