26 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of eulogies and benedictions, the courtiers of both sexes

were bribed according to the measure of their power

and rapaciousness. But their incessant demands de­

spoiled the sanctuaries of Constantinople and Alexan­

dria; and the authority of the patriarch was unable to

silence the just murmur of his clergy, that a debt of

60,000/. had already been contracted to support the ex­

pense of this scandalous corruption.11 Pulcheria, who

relieved her brother from the weight of an empire, was

the firmest pillar of orthodoxy; and so intimate was the

alliance between the thunders of the synod and the

whispers of the court, that Cyril was assured of success

if he could displace one eunuch, and substitute another

in the favour of Theodosius. Yet the Egyptian could

not boast of a glorious or decisive victory. The empe­

ror, with unaccustomed firmness, adhered to his pro­

mise of protecting the innocence of the oriental bishops;

and Cyril softened his anathemas, and confessed, with

ambiguity and reluctance, a twofold nature of Christ,

before he was permitted to satiate his revenge against

the unfortunate Nestorius."

The rash and obstinate Nestorius, before the

Nestorius, end of the synod, was oppressed by Cyril, be-

"' trayed by the court, and faintly supported by his

eastern friends. A sentiment of fear or indignation

prompted him, while it was yet time, to affect the

glory of a voluntary abdication ;f his wish, or at least

his request, was readily granted; he was conducted

'' Clerici qui hie sunt contristantur, quod ecclesia Alexandrina nudata sit
hojus

causa turbelae; et debet prater ilia qua hinc transmissa sint auri libras
mille

quuigintas. Et mme ei scriptum est ut prastet; sed de tua ecclesia pricsta
ava-

ritiaj quorum nosti, &c. This curious and original letter, from Cyril's
archdeacon

to his creature the new bishop of Constantinople, has been unaccountably pre­

served in an old Latin version. (Synodicon, c. 403. Concil. torn. 4. p.
465—468.)

The mask is almost dropped, and the saints speak the honest language of
interest

and confederacy.

• The tedious negotiations that succeeded the synod of Ephesus are diffusely
re­

lated in the original Acts, (Concil. torn. 3. p. 1339—1771, ad fin. vol. and
the Sy­

nodicon, in torn. 4.) Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 28. 35. 40, 41.) Evagrius, (lib.
1. c. 6—8.

12.) Liberatus, (c. 7—10.) Tillemont, Mern. Eccles. torn. 14. p. 487—676.)

The most patient reader will thank me for compressing so much nonsense and

falsehood in a few lines.

'AUTO U Ti »uJtn8svTOf, tmrftm nan ro toum mravawXtiwai poraa-Tr,(i«.
Evagrius,

lib. 1. c. 7. The original letters in the Synodicon (c. 15. 24—26) justify th?

