448 ROMAN EMPIRE.

that the governor of Cordova is recorded as the only chief

who fell, without conditions, a prisoner into their hands.

The cause of the Goths had been irrevocably judged in

the field of Xeres; and, in the national dismay, each

part of the monarchy declined a contest with the anta­

gonist who had vanquished the united strength of the

whole." That strength had been wasted by two succes­

sive seasons of famine and pestilence; and the governors,

who were impatient to surrender, might exaggerate the

difficulty of collecting the provisions of a siege. To

disarm the Christians, superstition likewise contributed

her terrors; and the subtle Arab encouraged the report

of dreams, omens, and prophecies, and of the portraits of

the destined conquerors of Spain, that were discovered

on breaking open an apartment of the royal palace. Yet

a spark of the vital flame was still alive: some invincible

fugitives preferred a life of poverty and freedom in the

Asturian valleys; the hardy mountaineer repulsed the

slaves of the caliph; and the sword of Pelagius has been

transformed into the sceptre of the Catholic kings.*

Conquest On ^e intelligence of his rapid success, the

applause of Musa degenerated into envy; and

A. u. he began, not to complain but to fear, that Tarik

would leave him nothing to subdue. At the

head of ten thousand Arabs and eight thousand Africans,

he passed over in person from Mauritania to Spain: the

first of his companions were the noblest of the Koreish;

his eldest son was left in the command of Africa; the

three younger brethren were of an age and spirit to se­

cond the boldest enterprises of their father. At his land­

ing in Algezire, he was respectfully entertained by count

Julian, who stifled his inward remorse, and testified,

"Sucb was the argument of the traitor Oppae, and every chief to whom it was

addressed did not answer with the spirit of Pelagius. — Omnis Hispania dudnm

sub uno regimine Gothorum, omnis exercitus Hispaniae in uno congregatus Unru 1
-

itarum mm valuit sustinere impel urn. Chron. Alphonsi Regis, apud Pagi, torn.
:i.

p. 177.

* The revival of the Gothic kingdom in the Asturias is distinctly, though, con­  
cisely, noticed by d'Anville. (Etats de 1'Europe, p. 159.)

