CHAP. XLVII. 5

able. It may be fairly presumed, that the most sublime

and virtuous of human spirits was infused into the off­

spring of Mary and the Holy Ghost;' that his abasement

was the result of his voluntary choice; and that the object

of his mission was to purify, not his owq, but the sins

of the world. On his return to his native skies, he re­

ceived the immense reward of his obedience; the ever­

lasting kingdom of the Messiah, which had been dark­

ly foretold by the prophets, under the carnal images

sf peace, of conquest, and of dominion. Omnipotence

could enlarge the human faculties of Christ to the extent

of his celestial office. In the language of antiquity, the

title of God has not been severely confined to the first

parent, and his incomparable minister, his only-begotten

Son, might claim, without presumption, the religious,

though secondary, worship of a subject world.

ir. A pure II- The seeds of the faith, which had slowly

God toUie arisen in the rocky and ungrateful soil of Judea,

were transplanted, in full maturity, to the hap­

pier climes of the Gentiles; and the strangers of Rome

or Asia, who never beheld the manhood, were the more

readily disposed to embrace the divinity of Christ. The

Polytheistand the philosopher, the Greek and the bar­

barian, were alike accustomed to conceive a long suc­

cession, an infinite chain of angels or demons, or deities,

or aeons, or emanations, issuing from the throne of light.

Nor could it seem strange or incredible, that the first

of these aeons, the Logos, or Word of God, of the same

substance with the Father, should descend upon earth

to deliver the human race from vice and error, and to

conduct them in the paths of life and immortality. But

the prevailing doctrine of the eternity and inherent pravi-

ty of matter infected the primitive churches of the east.

Many among the Gentile proselytes refused to believe

•'On8 TOU Tttmfff -^uya, n -nu Aa-ift uv—was one of ihe fifteen heresies
imputed

to Origen, and denied by his apologist. (Photius, Bibliothec. Cod. 117. p.
296.)

Some of the rabbies attribute ono and the same soul to the persons of Adam,
David,

and the Messiah.

