CHAP. XLVIII. 165

discovered a more easy and pleasing conqiiest, the

beautiful Philippa, sister of the empress Maria, and

daughter of Raymond of Poitou, the Latin prince of

Antioch. For her sake, he deserted his station, and

wasted the summer in balls and tournaments: to his

love she sacrificed her innocence, her reputation, and

the offer of an advantageous marriage. But the resent­

ment of Manuel for this domestic affront, interrupted

his pleasures: Andronicus left the indiscreet princess

to weep and to repent; and, with a band of desperate

adventurers, undertook the pilgrimage of Jerusalem^

His birth, his martial renown, and professions of zeal,

announced him as the champion of the cross; he soon

captivated both the clergy and the king; and the Greek

prince was invested with the lordship of Berytus, on-

the coast of Phoenicia. In his neighbourhood resided

a young and handsome queen of his own nation and

family, great grand-daughter of the emperor Alexis,

and widow of Baldwin III. king of Jerusalem. She

visited and loved her kinsman. Theodora was the third

victim of his amorous seduction; and her shame was

more public and scandalous than that of her predeces­

sors. The emperor still thirsted for revenge; and his

subjects and allies of the Syrian frontier, were repeat­

edly pressed to seize the person, and put out the eyes,

of the fugitive. In Palestine he was no longer safe;

but the tender Theodora revealed his danger and ac­

companied his flight. The queen of Jerusalem was

exposed to the east, his obsequious concubine; and two

illegitimate children were the living monuments of her

weakness. Damascus was his first refuge; and, in the

characters of the great Noureddin and his servant Sa-

ladin, the superstitious Greek might learn to revere the

virtues of the Mussulmans. As the friend of Noured­

din he visited most probably Bagdad, and the courts

of Persia; and, after a long circuit round the Caspian

sea and the mountains of Georgia, he finally settled

