206 ROMAN EMPIRK.

assumed the character of a divine ambassador: a Ger­

man chieftain was transformed into the Lord's anointed:

and this Jewish rite has been diffused and maintained

by the superstition and vanity of modern Europe. The

Franks were absolved from their ancient oath; but a

dire anathema was thundered against them and their

posterity, if they should dare to renew the same freedom

of choice, or to elect a king, except in the holy and

meritorious race of the Carlovingian princes. Without

apprehending the future danger, these princes gloried

in their present security; the secretary of Charlemagne

affirms, that the French sceptre was transferred by the

authority of the popes;' and in their boldest enterprises,

they insist, with confidence, on this signal and suc­

cessful act of temporal jurisdiction.

Patricians II. In the change of manners and language,

of Rome. ^e patricians of Rome™ were far removed from

the senate of Romulus, or the palace of Constantine,

from the free nobles of the republic, or the fictitious

parents of the emperor. After the recovery of Italy and

Africa by the arms of Justinian, the importance and

danger of those remote provinces required the presence

of a supreme magistrate; he was indifferently styled

the exarch or the patrician; and these governors of

Ravenna, who fill their places in the chronology of

princes, extended their jurisdiction over the Roman

city. Since the revolt of Italy and the loss of the ex­

archate, the distress of the Romans had exacted some

sacrifice of their independence. Yet, even in this act,

they exercised the right of disposing of themselves; and

foreign, Jewish, incomprehensible ceremony. Sea Selden's Titles of Honour, in
hi>

Works, vol. 3. part 1. p. 234—249.

1 See Eginhard, in Vitfi Caroli Magni, c. 1. p. 9, &c. c. 3. p. 24. Childeric
was

deposed—juati, Ihe Carlovingians were established—uuetorifote, Pontilices Ro­

man i. Launoy, Sic. pretend that these strong words are susceptible of a very
soft

interpretation. Be it so; yet Eginhard understood the world, the court, and
the

Latin language.

111 For the title and powers of patrician of Rome, see Ducange, (Gloss. Latin,

torn. 5. p. 149—151.) Pagi, (Critica, A.D. 740. no. 6—11.) Muratori, (Annali

d'ltalia, torn. 6. p. 308—389.) and St. Marc. (Abr£ge Chronologique d'ltalie,
torn. 1.

p. 379—381.) Of these the Franciscan Pagi is the most disposed to make the

patrician a lieutenant of the church, rattier than of the empire.

