•2 ROMAN EMPIRE.

I. A laudable regard for the honour of the first

man to the proselytes, has countenanced the belief, the hope,

Ebionites.

renes, were distinguished only by their obstinate perse­

verance in the practice of the Mosaic rites. Their

churches have disappeared, their books are obliterated:

their obscure freedom might allow a latitude of faith, and

the softness of their infant creed would be variously

moulded by the zeal or prudence of three hundred years.

Yet the most charitable criticism must refuse these secta­

ries any knowledge of the pure and proper divinity of

Christ. Educated in the school of Jewish prophecy and

prejudice, they had never been taught to elevate their

hopes above a human and temporal Messiah." If they

had courage to hail their king when he appeared in a ple-

antiquil y which I have seen with my own eyes, are compiled, digested, and
illus­

trated, by Petavius and Le Clerc, by Beausobre and Mosheirn. I shall be
content to

fortify my narrative by the names and characters of these respectable guides ;
and,

in the contemplation of a minute or remote object, I am not ashamed to borrow
the

aid of the strongest glasses. — 1. The Dogmata Theologica of Petavius, is a
work of

incredible labour and compass; the volumes which relate solely to the
incarnation

(two folios, fifth and sixth, of eight hundred and thirty-seven pages) are
divided

into sixteen books — the first of history, the remainder of controversy and
doctrine.

The Jesuit's learning is copious and correct; his Latinity is pure, his method
clear,

his argument profound and well connected: but he is the slave of the fathers,
the

scourge of heretics, and the enemy of truth and candour, as often as they are
ini­

mical to the Catholic cause. 2. The Armenian Le Clerc, who has composed, in a

quarto volume, (Amsterdam 1716.) the ecclesiastical history of the two first
ivi, -

turies, was free both in his temper and situation; his sense is clear, but his
thoughts

are narrow , he reduces the reason or folly of ages to the standard of his
private

judgment, nnd his impartiality is sometimes quickened, and sometimes tain ted,
by

bis opposition to the fathers. See the heretics (Corinthians, 80. Ebionites,
103.

Carpocratians, 120. Valentinians, 121. Basilidians, 123. Marcionites, 141,
&c.)

under their proper dates. 3. The Historie Critique du M&ncheisme (Amsterdam,

1734, 1739, in two vols. in quarto, with a posthumous dissertation sur les
Naza-

renes, Lausanne, 1745.) of M. de Beausobre is a treasure of ancient philosophy

and theology. The learned historian spins with incomparable art the systematic

thread of opinion, and transforms himself by turns into the person of a saint,
a

sage, or a heretic. Yet his refinement is sometimes excessive; he betrays an'

amiable partiality in favour of the weaker side, and while he guards against

calumny, he does not allow sufficient scope for superstition and fanaticisrn.
A

copious table of contents will direct the reader to any point that he wishes
to ex­

amine. 4. Less profound than Petavins, less independent than Le Clerc, less
in­

genious than Beausobre, the historian Mosheim is full, rational, correct, and
mo­

derate. In his learned work, De Rebus Christianis ante Constanrinum
(Helmstadt,

1753, in quarto,) see the Natarenes and Ebionites, p. 172—179. 3*8 — 33a; the

Gnostics in general, p. 179. &c.; Cerinthus,:p. 196 — 202; Basilides, p. 35ft
— 361;

Carpocrates, p. 363.— 367; Valentinus, p. 371—389; Marcion, p. 404 — 410;

the Manicheana, p 829—837, &c.

b Kai yap irarn; n/wuf TW Xfurrw aV&{lMWV i£ «&{aff•i irprtauiptn J4mirlo-&ai
says

the Jewish Tryphon, (Justin. Dialog, p. 507.) in the name of his countrymen ;
and

the modem Jews, the few who divert their thoughts from money to religion,
still

held the same language, and allege the literal sense of the prophets.

