268 ROMAN EMPIRE.

a maxim of jurisprudence, which they believe and prac­

tise to the present hour. They pretend, that, in the

division of the earth, the rich and fertile climates were

assigned to the other branches of the human family; and

that the posterity of the outlaw Ismael might recover,

by fraud or force, the portion of inheritance, of which

he had been unjustly deprived. According to the re­

mark of Pliny, the Arabian tribes are equally addicted

to theft and merchandise; the caravans that traverse the

desert are ransomed or pillaged; and their neighbours,

since the remote times of Job and Sesostris,m have been

the victims of their rapacious spirit. If a Bedoween

discovers from afar a solitary traveller, he rides furi­

ously against him, crying, with a loud voice, Undress

thyself, thy aunt (my wife) is without a garment. A

ready submission entitles him to mercy; resistance will

provoke the aggressor, and his own blood must expiate

the blood which he presumes to shed in legitimate de­

fence. A single robber, or a-few associates, are branded

with their genuine name; but the exploits of a numer­

ous band assume the character of a lawful and honour­

able war. The temper of a people thus armed against

mankind, was doubly inflamed by the domestic licence

of rapine, murder, and revenge. In the constitution of

Europe, the right of peace and war is now confined to

a small, and the actual exercise to a much smaller, list

of respectable potentates; but each Arab, with impunity

and renown, might point his javelin against the life of

his countryman. The union of the nation consisted

only in a vague resemblance of language and manners;

and in each community, the jurisdiction of the magi­

strate was mute and impotent. Of the time of ignorance

which preceded Mahomet, seventeen hundred battles"

i" Observe the first chapter of Job, and the long wall of one thousand five
hundred

stadia which Sesostris built from Pelusium to Heliopolis. (Diodor. Sicul.
torn. 1.

lib. 1. p. 67.) Under the name of Hycsot, the shepherd kings, they had
formerly

subdued Egypt, (Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 98—163, &c.)

"Or, according to another account, one thousand two hundred: (d'Herbelot,

Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 75.) the two historians, who wrote of the Ayamal
Arab,

