250 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Such anarchy was the inevitable consequence of the

laws and manners of Europe; and the kingdoms of

France and Italy were shivered into fragments by the

violence of the same tempest. But the Italian cities

and the French vassals were divided and destroyed,

while the union of the Germans has produced, under

the name of an empire, a great system of a federative

republic. In the frequent, and at last the perpetual,

institution of diets, a national spirit was kept alive, and

the powers of a common legislature are still exercised

by the three branches or .colleges of the electors, the

princes, and the free and imperial cities of Germany.

I. Seven of the most powerful feudatories were per­

mitted to assume, with a distinguished name and rank,

the exclusive privilege of choosing the Roman emperor;

and these electors were the king of Bohemia, the duke

of Saxony, the margrave of Brandenburgh, the count

palatine of the Rhine, and the three archbishops of

Mentz, of Treves, and of Cologne. II. The college of

princes and prelates purged themselves of a promiscuous

multitude: they reduced to four representative votes,

the long series of independent counts, and excluded

the nobles or equestrian order, sixty thousand of whom,

as in the Polish diets, had appeared on horseback, in

the field of election. III. The pride of birth and do­

minion, of the sword and the mitre, wisely adopted the

commons as the third branch of the legislature, and, in

the progress of society, they were introduced about the

same era into the national assemblies of France, Eng­

land, and Germany. The Hanseatic league command­

ed the trade and navigation of the north: the confede­

rates of the Rhine secured the peace and intercourse of

the inland country; the influence of the cities has been

adequate to their wealth and policy, and their negative

still invalidates the acts of the two superior colleges of

electors and princes.'

1 In the immense labyrinth of the juspublicam of Germany, I most either quote

one writer or a thousand. and I had rather trust to one faithful guide, than
tran­

scribe, on credit, a multitude of aamcs and passages. That guide ia M.
Pfeffol, the

