370 ROMAN EMPIRE.

over the desert of Kirman, implored the aid of the

warlike Segestans, and sought an hwnble refuge on the

verge of the Turkish and Chinese power. But a vic­

torious army is insensible of fatigue: the Arabs divided

their forces in the pursuit of a timorous enemy; and the

caliph Othman promised the government of Chorasan

to the first general who should enter that large and

populous country, the kingdom of the ancient Bactrians.

The condition was accepted; the prize was deserved;

the standard of Mahomet was planted on the walls of

Herat, Merou, and Batch; and the successful leader

neither halted nor reposed till his foaming cavalry had

tasted the waters of the Oxus. In the public anarchy,

the independent governors of the cities and castles ob­

tained their separate capitulations; the terms were

granted or imposed by the esteem, the prudence, or the

compassion of the victors; and a simple profession of

faith established the distinction between a brother and a

slave. After a noble defence, Harmozan, the prince or

satrap of Ahwaz and Susa, was compelled to surrender

his person and his state to the discretion of the caliph;

and their interview exhibits a portrait of the Arabian

m&ntiers. In the presence, and by the command of

Omar, the gay barbarian was despoiled of his silken

robes embroidered with gold, and of his tiara bedecked

with rubies and emeralds. Are you now sensible {said

the conqueror to his naked captive), are you now sensible

of the judgment of God, and of the different rewards of

infidelity and obedience?—Alas! (replied Harmoean) I

feel them too deeply. In the days of our common igno­

rance, we fought with the weapons of the flesh, and my

nation was superior. God was then neuter: since he

has espoused your quarrel, you have subverted our king­

dom and religion. Oppressed by this painful dialogue,

the Persian complained of intolerable thirst, but dis­

covered some apprehensions lest he should be killed

whilst he was drinking a cup of water. Be of good

