50 ROMAN EMPIRE.

The three THREE CHAPTERS,b which has filled more vo-

chaptcrs. lumes than it deserves lines, is deeply marked

532—698. with this subtle and disingenuous spirit. It

was now three hundred years since the body of Origen0

had been eaten by the worms: his soul, of which he held

the pre-existence, was in the hands of its Creator, but his

writings were eagerly perused by the monks of Palestine.

In these writings, the piercing eye of Justinian descried

more than ten metaphysical errors; and the primitive

doctor, in the company of Pythagoras and Plato, was

devoted by the clergy to the eternity of hell-fire, which

he had presumed to deny. Under the cover of this pre­

cedent, a treacherous blow was aimed at the council of

Chalcedon. The fathers had listened without impa­

tience to the praise of Theodore of Mopsuestia :d and

their justice or indulgence had restored both Theodoret

of Cyrrhus, and Ibas of Edessa, to the communion of

the church. But the characters of these oriental bishops

were tainted with the reproach of heresy; the first had

been the master, the two others were the friends of Nes-

torius: their most suspicious passages were accused

under the tide of the three chapters; and the condem­

nation of their memory must involve the honour of a

11 On the subject of the three chapters, the original acts of the fifth
general coun­

cil of Constantinople supply much useless though authentic knowledge. (Concil.

torn. 6. p. 1—419.) The Greek Evagrius is less copious and correct (Jin. 4. c.

38.) than the three zealous Africans, Facundus, (in his twelve books de tribus

capitules, which are most correctly published by Si runnil) Liberates, (in.
his Bre-

viarum, c. 22—24.) and Victor Tunnensis in his Chronicle, (in torn. 1. Antiq.

Lect. Canisii, p. 330—334.) The Liber Pontificalia, or Anastaaius, (in
Vigilio,

Pelagio, &c.) is original, Italian evidence. The modem reader will derive some

information from Dupin (Bibliot. Eccles. torn. 5. p. 189—207.) and Baanage,

(Hist.de 1'Eglise, torn. 1. p. 519—541.) yet the latter is too firmly resolved
to

depreciate the authority and character of the popes.

c Origen had indeed too great a propensity to imitate the trXan and
Juiririgsia of

the old philosophers. (Justinian ad Mennam, in Concil. torn. 6. p. 356.) His

moderate opinions were too repugnant to the zeal of the church, and he was
found

guilty of the heresy of reason.

dBasnage(Prefat. p. 11—14. ad torn. 1. Antiq. Lect. Canis.) has fairly weighed

the guilt and innocence of Theodore of Mopsuestia. If he composed ten thousand

volumes, as many errors would be a charitable allowance. In all the subsequent

catalogues of heresiarchs, he alone, without Ins two brethren, is included:
and it

is the duty of Asseman (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 203—207.) to justify the
sen­

tence.

