168 ROMAN EMPIRE.

sunk before him; he reached the straits of the Thracian

Bosphorus; the Byzantine navy sailed from the har­

bour to receive and transport the saviour of the empire;

the torrent was loud and irresistible, and the insects,

who had basked in the sunshine of royal favour, disap­

peared at the blast of the storm. It was the first care

of Andronicus to occupy the palace, to salute the em­

peror, to confine his mother, to punish her minister, and

to restore the public order and tranquillity. He then

visited the sepulchre of Manuel: the spectators were

ordered to stand aloof, but, as he bowed in the attitude

of prayer, they heard, or thought they heard, a murmur

of triumph and revenge. I no longer fear thee, my old

enemy, who hast driven me a vagabond to every climate

of the earth. Thou art safely deposited under a seven­

fold dome, from whence thou canst never arise till the

signal of the last trumpet. It is now my turn, and speed­

ily will I trample on thy ashes and thy posterity. From

his subsequent tyranny we may impute such feelings

to the man and the moment. But it is not extremely

probable that he gave an articulate sound to his secret

thoughts. In the first months of his administration,

his designs were veiled by a fair semblance of hypo­

crisy, which could delude only the eyes of the multi­

tude: the coronation of Alexius was performed with

due solemnity, and his perfidious guardian, holding in,

his hands the body and blood of Christ, most fervently

declared, that he lived, and was ready to die, for the

service of his beloved pupil. But his numerous adhe­

rents were instructed to maintain, that the sinking

empire must perish in the hands of a child: that the

Romans could only be saved by a veteran prince, bold

in arms, skilful in policy, and taught to reign by the

long experience of fortune and mankind; and that it

was the duty of every citizen, to force the reluctant

modesty of Andronicus to undertake the burden of the

public care. The young emperor was himself con­

