146 ROMAN EMPIRE.

command of provinces and armies. Their fraternal

union doubled the force and reputation of the Comneni,

and their ancient nobility was illustrated by the mar足

riage of the two brothers with a captive princess of Bul足

garia, and the daughter of a patrician, wh9 had obtained

the name of Charon from the number of enemies whom

he had sent to the infernal shades. The soldiers had

served with reluctant loyalty a series of effeminate mas足

ters; the elevation of Michael VI. was a personal insult

to the more deserving generals; and their discontent

was inflamed by the parsimony of the emperor and the

insolence of the eunuchs. They secretly assembled in

the sanctuary of St. Sophia, and the votes of the military

synod would have been unanimous in favour of the old

and valiant Catacalon, if the patriotism or modesty of

the veteran had not suggested the importance of birth

as well as merit in the choice of a sovereign. Isaac

Comnenus was approved by general consent, and the

associates separated without delay to meet in the plains

of Phrygia at the head of their respective squadrons and

detachments. The cause of Michael was defended in a

single battle by the mercenaries of the imperial guard,

who were aliens to the public interest, and animated

only by a principle of honour and gratitude. After their

defeat, the fears of the emperor solicited a treaty, which

was almost accepted by the moderation "of the Comne-

nian. But the former was betrayed by his ambassadors,

and the latter was prevented by his friends. The soli足

tary Michael submitted to the voice of the people; the

patriarch annulled their oath of allegiance; and as he

shaved the head of the royal monk, congratulated his

beneficial exchange of temporal royalty for the kingdom

of heaven: an exchange, however, which the priest on

his own account, would probably have declined. By

the hands of the same patriarch, Isaac Comnenus was

solemnly crowned: the sword which he inscribed on his

corns, might be an offensive symbol, if it implied his

