CHAP. LII. 473

inhabitant of the city: but the liberal offer was rejected

with disdain, and the presumption of Moslemah was ex­

alted by the speedy approach and invincible force of the

navies of Egypt and Syria. They are said to have

amounted to eighteen hundred ships: the number be­

trays their inconsiderable size; and of the twenty stout

and capacious vessels whose magnitude impeded their

progress, each was manned with no more than one hun­

dred heavy-armed soldiers. This huge armada pro­

ceeded on a smooth sea and with a gentle gale, towards

the mouth of the Bosphorus; the surface of the strait

was overshadowed, in the language of the Greeks, with

a moving forest, and the same fatal night had been fixed

by the Saracen chief for a general assault by sea and

land. To allure the confidence of the enemy, the em­

peror had thrown aside the chain that usually guarded

the entrance of the harbour: but while they hesitated

whether they should seize the opportunity, or apprehend

the snare, the ministers of destruction were at hand. The

fireships of the Greeks were launched against them;

the Arabs, their arms, and vessels, were involved in the

same flames; the disorderly fugitives were dashed against

each other, or overwhelmed in the waves; and I no

longer find a vestige of the fleet, that had threatened to

extirpate the Roman name. A still more fatal and irre­

parable loss was that of the caliph Soliman, who died of

an indigestion™ in his camp near Kinnisrin, or Chalcis,

in Syria, as he was preparing to lead against Constanti­

nople the remaining forces of the east. The brother of

Moslemah was succeeded by a kinsman and an enemy:

and the throne of an active and able prince was degraded

by the useless and pernicious virtues of a bigot. While

he started and satisfied the scruples of a blind conscience,

'" 'I hi: caliph had emptied two baskets of eggs and of figs, which he
swallowed

alternately, and the tepast was concluded with marrow and sugar. In one of his

pilgrimages to Mecca, Soliman ate, at a single meal, seventy pomegranates, a
kid,

six fowls, and a huge quantity of the grapes of Tayef. If the bill of fare be
cor­

rect, we must admire the appetite rather than the luxury of the sovereign of
Asia.

(Abulfedm, Anna!. Moslem, p. 126.)

