212 ROMAN EMPIRE.

their debt of gratitude: and the nominal gifts of the

Carlovingians were no more than the just and irrevo­

cable restitution of a scanty portion of the ecclesiastical

state. The sovereignty of Rome no longer depended

on the choice of a fickle people; and the successors of

St. Peter and Constantine were invested with the pur­

ple and prerogatives of the Caesars. So deep was the

ignorance and credulity of the times, that the mdfet

absurd of fables was received, with equal reverence, in

Greece and in France, and is still enrolled among the

decrees of the canon law/ The emperors, and the

Romans, were incapable of discerning a forgery, that

subverted their rights and freedom; and the only oppo­

sition proceeded from a Sabine monastery, which, in

the beginning of the twelfth century, disputed the truth

and validity of the donation of Constantine.b In the re­

vival of letters and liberty this fictitious deed was trans­

pierced by the pen of Laurentius Valla, the pen of an

eloquent critic and a Roman patriot.0 His contempora­

ries of the fifteenth century were astonished at his sacri­

legious boldness; yet such is the silent and irresistible

progress of reason, that before the end of the next age,

the fable was rejected by the contempt of historians'*

* In the year 1059, it was believed (was it believed ?) by pope Leo IX. cardinal  
Peter Damianus, &c. Muratori places (Annali d'lulia, torn. 2. p. 23, 24.) the
fic­

titious donations of Lewis the Pious, the Othos, &c. de Donatione Constantini.

See a Dissertation of Natalia Alexander, seculum 4. diss. 25. p. 335—350.

b See a large account of the controversy (A.. D. 1105.) which arose from a
pri­

vate lawsuit, in the Cbronicon. Farsense, (Script. Rerum Italicarum, torn. 2.
pars

8. p. 637, &c.) a copious extract from the archives of that Benedictine abbey.
1 hey

were formerly accessible to curious foreigners (Le Blanc and Mabillon), and
would

have enriched the first volume of the Historia Monastica Italia of Quirini.
But they

are now imprisoned (Muratori, Scriptures, R. I. torn. 2. pars. 2. p. 269.) by
the timid

policy of the court of Rome; and the future cardinal yielded to the voice of
au­

thority rxnd the whispers of ambition. (Quirini, Comment, pars 2. p. 123—136.)

'" I have read in the collection of Schardius (de Potestate Imperial
Ecclesiastics,

p. 734—780.) this animated discourse, which was composed by the author, A. D.

1440, six years after the flight of pope Eugenius IV. It is a most vehement
party

pamphlet: Valla justifies and animates the revolt of the Romans, and would
even

approve the use of a dagger against their sacerdotal tyrant. Such a critic
might ex­

pect the persecution of the clergy; yet he made his peace, and is buried in
the La-

teran. (Bayle.Dictionnaire Critique, VALLA; Vossius, deHistoricis Latinis. p.
580.)

d See Guicciardini, a servant of the popes, in that long and valuable
digression,

which has resumed its place in the last edition, correctly published from the
author's

MS. and printed in four volumes in quarto, under the name of Friburgo, 1775.

(Istoria d'ltalia, torn. 1. p. 385—395.)

