462 ROMAN EMPIRK.

announces the speedy and inevitable ruin of the episcopal

and Spain,or(^er- The Christians of Africa and Spain had

A-D.ii49,l(n)g since submitted to the practice of circum­

cision and the legal abstinence from wine and

pork; and the name of Mazarabes0 (adoptive Arabs)

was applied to their civil or religious conformity.11

About the middle of the twelfth century, the worship of

Christ and the succession of pastors were abolished

along the coast of Barbary, and in the kingdoms of Cor­

dova and Seville, of Valentia and Grenada." The throne

of the Almohades, or Unitarians, was founded on the

blindest fanaticism, and their extraordinary rigour might

be provoked or justified by the recent victories and in­

tolerant zeal of the princes of Sicily and Castile, of Ar-

ragon and Portugal. The faith of the Moz-

arabes was occasionally revived by the papal

missionaries; and, on the landing of Charles V. some

families of Latin Christians were encouraged to rear their

heads at Tunis and Algiers. But the seed of the gospel

was quickly eradicated, and the long province from Tri­

poli to the Atlantic has lost all memory of the language

and religion of Rome/

0 Mozarabes, or Mostarabes, udscititii, as it is interpreted in Latin.
(Pocock,

Specimen Hist. Araburn. p. 39, 40. Hibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 2. p. 18.)

The Mozarabic liturgy, the ancient ritual of the church of Toledo, has been
at­

tacked by the popes, and exposed to the doubtful trials of the sword and of
Ere.

(Marian. Hist. Hispan. torn. 1. lib. 9. c. 18. p. 378.) It was, or rather it
is, in the

Latin tongue: yet in the eleventh century it was found necessary (A.. T. C.
1687,

A. I'. 1059.) to transcribe an Arabic version of the canons of the councils of
Spain,

(Bibliot , Arab. Hist , torn. 1. p. 547.) for the use of the bishops and
clergy in the

Moorish kingdoms.

cl About the middle of the tenth century, the clergy of Cordova was reproached

with this criminal compliance, by the intrepid envoy of the emperor Otho I.
(ViU

Johan. Gorz, in Secul. Benedict. V. no. 115. apud Henry; Hist. En-lea, torn.
It.

p. 91.)

'• Pagi, Critica, torn. 4. A. D. 1149. no. 8, 9. He justly observes, that when

Seville, &ic. were retaken by Ferdinand of Castile, no Christians, except
captives,

were found in the place; and that the Mozarabic churches of Africa and Spain,

'described by James a Vitriaco, A. D. 1518, (Hist. Hierosol. c. 80. p. 1095.
in

Gest , Dei per Francos) are copied from some older book. I shall add, that the

date of the Hegira, 677, (A. D. 1278.) must apply to the copy, not the
composition,

of a treatise of jurisprudence, which states the civil rights of the
Christians of

Cordova; (Bibliot. Arab. Hist , torn. 1. p. 471.) and that the Jews were the
only

dissenters whom Abul Waled, king of Grenada, (A.D. 1313.) could either dis­

countenance or tolerate, (torn. 2. p. 288.)

'Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 288. Leo Africanus would have flattered

bis Roman masters, could he have discovered any latent relics of the
Christianttr

of Africa.

