CHAP. LI. 431

the name of Abdallah was joined by the Arabians with

the heroic names of Caled and Amrou.8

Progress of The western conquests of the Saracens were

wnifiiT" suspended near twenty years, till their dis-

Afnca, sensions were composed by the establishment

665—689. of the house of Ommiyah: and the caliph

Moawiyah was invited by the cries of the Africans them­

selves. The successors of Heraclius had been informed

of the tribute which they had been compelled to stipu­

late with the Arabs: but instead of being moved to pity

and relieve their distresses, they imposed, as an equivalent

or a fine, a second tribute of a similar amount. The

ears of the Byzantine ministers were shut against the

complaints of their poverty and ruin: their despair was

reduced to prefer the dominion of a single master; and

the extortions of the patriarch of Carthage, who was

invested with civil and military power, provoked the sec­

taries, and even the Catholics, of the Roman province to

abjure the religion as well as the authority of their ty­

rants. The first lieutenant of Moawiyah acquired a just

renown, subdued an important city, defeated an army of

thirty thousand Greeks, swept away fourscore thousand

captives, and enriched with their spoils the bold adven­

turers of Syria and Egypt.h But the title of conqueror

of Africa is more justly due to his successor Akbah. He

marched from Damascus at the head of ten thousand of

the bravest Arabs; and the genuine force of the Mos­

lems was enlarged by the doubtful aid and conversion of

many thousand barbarians. It would be difficult, nor is

it necessary, to trace the accurate line of the progress of

Akbah. The interior regions have been peopled by the

orientals with fictitious armies and imaginary citadels.

In the warlike province of Zab or Numidia, fourscore

partivav 2apaxqv»i TW A^gixnv, xat 7-u/u£oXorrs; ta TVfanw

i, MI nut aw aural nmmon, xai irroi^iwaVTif ipgpw; ftlT» TOT Aif(m in

Theophau. Chronograph, p. 285. edit. Paris. His chronology i i loose and
inaccurate.

h Theophanes (in Chronograph, p. 293.) inserts the vague rumours that might

reach Constantinople, of the western conquests of the Arabs; and I learn from

Paul Wamefrid, deacon of Aquileia, (de Gcstis Langobard, lib. 5. c. 15.) that
at

this time the; sent a fleet from Alexandria into the Sicilian and African
seas.

