471 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the siege was continued through the winter by the neg­

lect rather than by the resolution of the caliph Omar."

The winter proved uncommonly rigorous: above a hun­

dred days the ground was covered with deep snow, and

the natives of the sultry climes of Egypt and Arabia lay

torpid and almost lifeless in their frozen camp. They

revived on the return of spring; a second effort had been

made in their favour; and their distress was relieved by

the arrival of two numerous fleets, laden with com, and

arms, and soldiers; the first from Alexandria, of four

hundred transports and galleys; the second of three

hundred and sixty vessels from the ports of Africa. But

the Greek fires were again kindled, and if the destruc­

tion was less complete, it was owing to the experience

which had taught the Moslems to remain at a safe dis­

tance, or to the perfidy of the Egyptian mariners, who

deserted with their ships to the emperor of the Chris­

tians. The trade and navigation of the capital were re­

stored; and the produce of the fisheries supplied the

wants, and even the luxury, of the inhabitants. But the

calamities of famine and disease were soon felt by the

troops of Moslemah, and as the former was miserably

assuaged, so the latter was dreadfully propagated, by the

pernicious nutriment which hunger compelled them to

extract from the most unclean or unnatural food. The

spirit of conquest, and even of enthusiasm, was extinct:

the Saracens could no longer straggle beyond their lines,

either single or in small parties, without exposing them­

selves to the merciless retaliation of the Thracian pea­

sants. An army of Bulgarians was attracted from the

Danube by the gifts and promises of Leo; and these

savage auxiliaries made some atonement for the evils

„„ being with God, that he would not have anointed his ear (his

own saying) to obtain a perfect cure of his last malady. The caliph had only
one

shirt, and in an age of luxury his annual expense was no more than two
drachms.

(Abulpharagius, p. 131.) Haud din gavisus eo principe fait orbix Moslemas.

(Abulfeda, p. 127.)

