162 ROMAN EMPIRE.

surprised by the sally of a vigilant foe: but while his

troops fled in disorder, his invincible lance transpierced

the thickest ranks of the Armenians. On his return to

the imperial camp in Macedonia, he was received by

Manuel with public smiles and a private reproof; but

the duchies of Naissus, Braniseba, and Castoria, were

the reward or consolation of the unsuccessful general.

Eudocia still attended his motions; at midnight, their

tent was suddenly attacked by her angry brothers, im­

patient to expiate her infamy in his blood: his daring

spirit refused her advice, and the disguise of a female

habit; and, boldly starting from his couch, he drew his

sword, and cut his way through the numerous assassins.

It was here that he first betrayed his ingratitude and

treachery: he engaged in a treasonable correspondence

with the king of Hungary and the German emperor;

approached the royal tent at a suspicious hour, with a

drawn sword; and, under the mask of a Latin soldier,

avowed an intention of revenge against a mortal foe;

and imprudently praised the fleetness of his horse as an

instrument of flight and safety. The monarch dissem­

bled his suspicions; but, after the close of the campaign,

Andronicus was arrested, and strictly confined in a'tower

of the palace of Constantinople.

In this prison he was left above twelve years; a most

painful restraint, from which the thirst of action and plea­

sure perpetually urged him to escape. Alone and pen­

sive, he perceived some broken bricks in a corner of the

chamber, and gradually widened the passage, till he had

explored a dark and forgotten recess. Into this hole he

conveyed himself, and the remains of his provisions, re­

placing the bricks in their former positions, and erasing

with care the footsteps of his retreat. At the hour of

the customary visit, his guards were amazed with the

silence and solitude of the prison, and reported, with

shame and fear, his incomprehensible flight. The gates

of the palace and city were instantly shut: the strictest

