ROMAN EMPIRE.

the commander of the faithful. His lieutenant, from a

motive of fear or pity, apprised Abu Taher of his danger,

and recommended a speedy escape. Your master (said

the intrepid Carraathian to the messenger) is at the head

of thirty thousand soldiers; three such men as these are

ivanting in his host: at the same instant, turning to three

of his companions, he commanded the first to plunge a

dagger into his breast, the second to leap into the Tigris,

and the third to cast himself headlong down a precipice.

They obeyed without a murmur. Relate (continued

the imam) what you have seen: before the evening your

general shall be chained among my dogs. Before the

evening, the camp was surprised and the menace was

executed. The rapine of the Carmathians was sancti足

fied by their aversion to the worship of Mecca: they

robbed a caravan of pilgrims, and twenty thousand de足

vout Moslems were abandoned on the burning sands to

Theypii- a death of hunger and thirst. Another year

Mecca, they suffered the pilgrims to proceed without in-

A.D.929. terruptjon; but, in the festival of devotion, Abu

Taher stormed the holy city, and trampled on the most

venerable relics of the Mahometan faith. Thirty thou足

sand citizens and strangers were put to the sword; the

sacred precincts were polluted by the burial of three

thousand dead bodies: the well of Zemzem overflowed

with blood; the golden spout was forced from its place;

the veil of the Caaba was divided among these impious

sectaries; and the black stone, the first monument of

the nation, was borne away in triumph to their capital.

After this deed of sacrilege and cruelty, they continued

to infest the confines of Irak, Syria, and Egypt; but the

vital principle of enthusiasm had withered at the root

Their scruples or their avarice again opened the pilgri足

mage of Mecca, and restored the black stone of the

Caaba; and it is needless to inquire into what factions

they were broken, or by whose swords they were finally

extirpated. The sect of the Carmathians may be con-

