CHAP. XLVII. 33

of Constantinople :p it is certain, that the victim, before

he could reach the place of his exile, expired, on the

third day, of the wounds and bruises which he had re­

ceived at Ephesus. This second synod has been justly

branded as a gang of robbers and assassins; yet the ac­

cusers of Dioscorus would magnify his violence, to

alleviate the cowardice and inconstancy of their own

behaviour.

Council of The faith of Egypt had prevailed: but the

AhD°45i1' vancluished party was supported by the same

Oct. s—' pope who encountered without fear the hostile

Nov 1

rage of Attila and Genseric. The theology of

Leo, his famous tome or epistle on the mystery of the in­

carnation, had been disregarded by the synod of Ephe­

sus; his authority, and that of the Latin church, was in­

sulted in his legates, who escaped from slavery and death

to relate the melancholy tale of the tyranny of Dioscorus

and the martyrdom of Flavian. His provincial synod

annulled the irregular proceedings of Ephesus; but as

this step was itself irregular, he solicited the convocation

of a general council in the free and orthodox provinces

of Italy. From his independent throne, the Roman bi­

shop spoke and acted without danger, as the head of the

Christians, and his dictates were obsequiously transcribed

by Placidia and her son Valentinian; who addressed

their eastern colleague to restore the peace and unity

of the church. But the pageant of oriental royalty was

moved with equal dexterity by the hand of the eunuch;

and Theodosius could pronounce, without hesitation,

that the church was already peaceful and triumphant,

and that the recent flame had been extinguished by the

just punishment of the Nestorians. Perhaps the Greeks

t EXiyf if (Eusebius, bishop of Dorylaum) TO oXsSww uu hiXaw; avoi;l&*wi

wj« Aiwx°(ou utai/am -n xai Xaxri^qunn: and this testimony of Evagrius (lib.
2.

c. 2.) is amplified by the Historian Zonaras, (torn. 2. lib. 13. p. 44.) who
affirms that

Dioscorus kicked like a wild ass. But the language of Liberatus (Brer. c. 12.
in

Cbncil. torn. 6. p. 438.) is more cautious; and the Act* of Chalcedon, which
lavish

the names of homicide, Cain, &c. do not justisfy so pointed a charge. The monk

Baraumas it more particularly accused — io-if«{i in fisaiafut «X>uiayoy wrrt;

tuu 1X1)4, rfa{or. (Conril. torn. 4. p. 1423.)

VOL. VI. D

