CHAP. L. 203

that can. neither be dissembled nor eluded, render this

mode of reasoning as indiscreet as it is superfluous:

the kingdom of Yemen has been successively subdued

by the Abyssinians, the Persians, the sultans of Egypt,1

and the Turks:" the holy cities of Mecca and Medina

have repeatedly bowed under a.Scythian tyrant; and

the Roman province of Arabia* embraced ,the peculiar

wilderness in which Ismacl and his sons must have

pitched their tents in the face of their brethren. Yet

these exceptions are temporary or local; the body of

the nation has escaped the yoke of the most powerful

monarchies: the arms of Sesostris and Cyrus, of Pom-

pey and Trajan, could never achieve the conquest of

Arabia; the present sovereign of the Turks'1 may exer­

cise a shadow of jurisdiction, but his pride is reduced to

solicit the friendship of a people, whom it is dangerous

to provoke and fruitless to attack. The obvious causes

of their freedom are inscribed on the character and coun­

try of the Arabs* Many ages before Mahomet,0 their

intrepid valour had been severely felt by their neighbours

in offensive and defensive war. The patient and active

the exceptions of fact, might dispute the meaning of the text, (Genes, xvi.
12.)

the extent of the application, and the foundation of the pedigree.

* It was subdued, A. D. 1173, by a brother of the great Saladin, who founded a  
dynasty of Curds or Ayoubites. (Guignes, Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 425.
D'Her-

belot, p. 477.)

* By the lieutenant of Soliman, (A. D. 1538.) and Selim II. (1568.) See Cante-  
mir's Hist, of the Otluunn empire, p. 201. 221. The pasha, who resided at
Saana,

commanded twenty-one beys, but no revenue was ever remitted to the Porte;

(Marsigli, Stato Militare d«IT Imperio Ottomanno, p. 124.) and the Turks were

expelled about the yeftr 163O. (Niebuhr, p. 167, 168.)

* Of the Roman province, under the name of Arabia and the third Palestine, the  
principal cities were Bostra and IVtr:x, which dated their era from the year
105,

when they were subdued by Palma, a lieutenant of Trajan. (Dion. Cassius, lib.
68.)

Petra was the capital of the Nabathsans, whose name is derived from the eldest

ofthesonsof Ismael. (tienes.xxv. 12, &c. with the commentaries of Jerome, Ln

Clerc, and Calmet.) Justinian relinquished a palm country of ten days'Journey

to the south of .:i:i:i!i, (Procop. de Bell. Persic, lib. 1. c. 100 and the
Romans

maintained a centurion and a custom-house, (Arrian in Periplo Mans Erythriei.

p. 11. in Hudson, torn. 1.) at a place (Xiuxu xa/un, Pagus Albus Hawara) in
the

territory of Medina. (D'Anville Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 243.) These real pos­

sessions, and some naval inroads of Trajan, (Peripl. p. 14, 15.) are magnified
by

li i story and medals into the Roman conquest of Arabia.

'• Niebuhr (Description de 1'Arabic, p. 302,303. 329—331.) affords the most

recent and authentic intelligence of the Turkish empire in Arabia.

c Diodonu Siculns (torn. 2. lib. 19. p. 390—393. edit. Wesseling) has clearly

exposed the freedom of the Nabathsan Arabs, who resisted the arms of Antigonus

and his son.

