CHAP. LI. 383

of his troops. At length, when the spirits and quivers of

the adverse line were almost exhausted, Caled gave tl*e

signal of onset and victory. The remains of the imperial

army fled to Antioch or Caesarea, or Damascus: and the

death of four hundred and seventy Moslems was com­

pensated by the opinion that they had sent to hell above

fifty thousand of the infidels. The spoil was inestimable;

many banners and crosses of gold and silver, precious

stones, silver and gold chains, and innumerable suits of

the richest armour and apparel. The general distribution

was postponed till Damascus should be taken: but

the seasonable supply of arms became the instru­

ment of new victories. The glorious intelligence was

transmitted to the throne of the caliph, and the Arabian

tribes, the coldest or most hostile to the prophet's mis­

sion, were eager and importunate to share the harvest of

Syria.

The Arabs ^e sac^ ^ings were carried to Damascus by

to the speed of grief and terror; and the inhabi­

tants beheld from their walls the return of the

heroes of Aiznadin. Amrou led the van at the head of

nine thousand horse: the bands of the Saracens suc­

ceeded each other in formidable review; and the rear

•was closed by Caled in person, with the standard of the

black eagle. To the activity of Derar he intrusted the

commission of patrolling round the city with two thou­

sand horse, of scouring the plain, and of intercepting all

succour or intelligence. The rest of the Arabian chiefs

were fixed in their respective stations before the seven

gates of Damascus; and the siege was renewed with

fresh vigour and confidence. The art, the labour, the

military engines of the Greeks and Romans, are seldom

to be found in the simple, though successful, operations

of the Saracens: it was sufficient for them to invest a

city with arms, rather than with trenches; to repel the

sallies of the besieged; to attempt a stratagem or an as­

sault; or to expect the progress of famine and discon­

