158 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the iron temper of a soldier, which cannot easily be

paralleled, except in the lives of Richard I. of England,

and of Charles XII. of Sweden. Such was his strength

and exercise in arms, that Raymond, surnamed the

Hercules of Antioch, was incapable of wielding the

lance and buckler of the Greek emperor. In a famous

tournament, he entered the lists on a fiery courser, and

overturned in his first career two of the stoutest of the

Italian knights. The first in the charge, the last in the

retreat, his friends and his enemies alike trembled, the

former for his safety, and the latter for their own. Af足

ter posting an ambuscade in a wood, he rode forth in

quest of some perilous adventure, accompanied only by

his brother and the faithful Axuch, who refused to de足

sert their sovereign. Eighteen horsemen, after a short

combat, fled before them: but the numbers of the ene足

my increased; the march of the reinforcement was

tardy and fearful, and Manuel, without receiving a

wound, cut his way through a squadron of the Turks.

In a battle against the Hungarians, impatient of the

slowness of his troops, he snatched a standard from the

head of the column, and was the first, almost alone, who

passed a bridge that separated him from the enemy. In

the same country, after transporting his army beyond

the Save, he sent back the boats, with an order, under

pain of death, to their commander, that he should leave

him to conquer or die on that hostile land. In thesiege

of Corfu, towing after him a captive galley, the emperor

stood aloft on the poop, opposing against the volley of

darts and stones, a large buckler and a flowing sail; nor

could he have escaped inevitable death, had not the Si足

cilian admiral enjoined his archers to respect the person

of a hero. In one day, he is said to have slain above

forty of the barbarians with his own hand; he returned

to the camp, dragging along four Turkish prisoners,

whom he had tied to the rings of his saddle: he was

ever the foremost to provoke or to accept a single com-

