CHAP. XLVIII. 160

strained to join his voice to the general acclamation,

and to solicit the association of a colleague, who in­

stantly degraded him from the supreme rank, secluded

his person, and verified the rash declaration of the pa­

triarch, that Alexius might be considered as dead, so

soon as he was committed to the custody of his guar­

dian. But his death was preceded by the imprison­

ment and execution of his mother. After blackening

her reputation, and inflaming against her the passions

of the multitude, the tyrant accused and tried the em­

press for a treasonable correspondence with the king

of Hungary. His own son, a youth of honour and hu­

manity, avowed his abhorrence of this flagitious act,

and three of the judges had the merit of preferring

their consciences to their safety; but the obsequious tri­

bunal, without requiring any proof, or hearing any de­

fence, condemned the widow of Manuel; and her un­

fortunate son subscribed the sentence of her death.

Maria was strangled, her corpse was buried in the sea,

and her memory was wounded by the insult most offen­

sive to female vanity, a false and ugly representation of

her beauteous form. The fate of her son was not long

deferred: he was strangled with a bowstring, and the

tyrant, insensible to pity or remorse, after surveying the

body of the innocent youth, struck it rudely with his

foot:—Thy father (he cried) was a knave, thy mother a

whore, and thyself a fool!

Androni- The Roman sceptre, the reward of his crimes,

CUs i. was held by Andronicus about three years and

Comnenus, • • i« i

A. D.I 183, a half, as the guardian or sovereign of the em­

pire. His government exhibited a singularcon-

trast of vice and virtue. ,When he listened to his pas­

sions he was the scourge; when he consulted his rea­

son, the father of his people. In the exercise of private

justice, he was equitable and rigorous: a shameful and

pernicious venality was abolished, and the offices were

filled with the most deserving candidates by a prince

