6 ROMAN EMPIRE.

that a celestial spirit, an undivided portion of the first

essence, had been personally united with a mass of im­

pure and contaminated flesh: and, in their zeal for the

divinity, they piously abjured the humanity of Christ.

While his blood was still recent on mount Calvary,1* the

Docetes, a numerous and learned sect of Asiatics, invent­

ed thefantastic system, which was afterward propagated

by the Marcionites, the Manichaeans, and the various

names of the Gnostic heresy.1 They denied the truth and

authenticity of the gospels, as far as they relate the con­

ception of Mary, the birth of Christ, and the thirty years

that preceded the exercise of his ministry. He first ap­

peared on the banks of the Jordan in the form of perfect

manhood; but it was a form only, and not a substance;

a human figure created by the hand of Omnipotence, to

imitate the faculties and actions of a man, and to impose

a perpetual illusion on the senses of his friends and ene­

mies. Articulate sounds vibrated on the ears of the

disciples; but the image, which was impressed on their

optic nerve, eluded the more stubborn evidence of the

touch; and they enjoyed the spiritual, not the corporeal,

presence of the Son of God. The rage of the Jews was

idly wasted against an impassive phantom; and the mys­

tic scenes of the passion and death, the resurrection and

ascension, of Christ, were represented on the theatre of

Jerusalem for the benefit of mankind. If it were urged,

that such ideal mimicry, such incessant deception, was

unworthy of the God of truth, the Docetes agreed with

too many of their orthodox brethren in the justification

of pious falsehood. In the system of the Gnostics, the

Jehovah of Israel, the creator of this lower world, was

k Apostol is adhuc in seculo superstitibus, apud Judsam Christi sanguine
recente,

PHANTAsMA domini corpus asserebatur. Hieronyrn. advers. Lucifer, c. 8. The

epistle of Ignatius to the Symnsans, and even the Gospel according to St.
John,

are levelled against the growing error of tho Docetes, who had obtained too
much

credit in the world. (1 John iv. 1—5.)

1 About the year 200 of the Christian era, Irensus and Hippolytus refuted the

thirty-two sects, Ti? xtvlaniftw ymffwt, which had multiplied to fourscore in
the

time of Epiphanius. (Phot. Biblioth. Cod. 120—122.) The five books of Irenieus

exist only in barbarous Latin'; but the original might perhaps be found in
some

monastery of Greece.

