CHAP. L. 353

rious rites in that magnificent temple: at Oxford or

Geneva, they would experience less surprise; but it

might still be incumbent on them to peruse the cate­

chism of the church, and to study the orthodox com­

mentators on their own writings, and the words of their

master. But the Turkish dome of St. Sophia, with an

increase of splendour and size, represents the humble

tabernacle erected at Medina by the hands of Mahomet

The Mahometans have uniformly withstood the tempta­

tion of reducing the object of their faith and devotion

to a level with the senses and imaginations of man. I

believe in one God, and Mahomet the apostle of God,

is the simple and invariable profession of Islam. The

intellectual image of the Deity has never been degraded

by any visible idol: the honours of the prophet have

never transgressed the measure of human virtue; and

his living precepts have restrained the gratitude of his

disciples within the bounds of reason and religion. The

votaries of Ali have indeed consecrated the memory of

their hero, his wife, and his children, and some of the

Persian doctors pretend that the divine essence was in­

carnate in the person of the Imams; but their super­

stition is universally condemned by the Sonnites; and

their impiety has afforded a seasonable warning against

the worship of saints and martyrs. The metaphysical

questions on the attributes of God, and the liberty of

man, have been agitated in the schools of the Mahome­

tans, as well as m those of the Christians; but among

the former they have never engaged the passions of the

people, or disturbed the tranquillity of the state. The

cause of this important difference may be found in the

separation or union of the regal and sacerdotal charac­

ters. It was the interest of the caliphs, the successors

of the prophet and commanders of the faithful, to repress

and discourage all religious innovations: the order, the

discipline, the temporal and spiritual ambition, of the

clergy, are unknown to the Moslems: and the sages of

VOL. vi. 2 A

