CHAP. XLIX. 215

rasius, and ratified by the acclamations and subscriptions

of three hundred and fifty bishops. They unanimously

pronounced, that the worship of images is agreeable to

Scripture and reason, to the fathers and councils of the

church: but they hesitate whether that worship be rela­

tive or direct; whether the godhead, and the figure of

Christ, be entitled to the same mode of adoration. Of

this second Nicene council, the acts are still extant; a

curiousmonumentof superstition and ignorance; of false­

hood and folly. I shall only notice the judgment of the

bishops, on the comparative merit of image-worship and

morality. A monk had concluded a truce with the de­

mon of fornication, on condition of interrupting his daily

prayers to a picture that hung in his cell. His scruples

prompted him to consult the abbot. Rather than ab­

stain from adoring Christ and his mother in their holy

images, it would be better (replied the casuist) to enter

every brothel, and visit every prostitute, in the city.1

Final esta- For the honour of orthodoxy, at least the or-

ofUrT""* thodoxy of the Roman church, it is somewhat

>7 **«I unfortunate, that the two princes who convened

Theodora, the two councils of Nice, are both stained with

'D'842'the blood of their sons. The second of these

assemblies was approved and rigorously executed by

the despotism of Irene; and she refused her adver­

saries the toleration which at first she had granted to

her friends. During the five succeeding reigns, a pe­

riod of thirty-eight years, the contest was maintained,

with unabated rage and various success, between the

worshippers and the breakers of the images; but I am

not inclined to pursue with minute diligence the repe­

tition of the same events. Nicephorus allowed a ge-

were persuaded by the Catholics to represent the oriental patriarchs. This cu­

rious anecdote is revealed by Theodore Studitei, (epist. 1. 38. in Sirmond.
Opp.

torn. 5. p. 1519.) one of the warmest Iconoclasts of the nge.

1 Zu/tKpif ii Ji ffoi ff' xaraXifl-liv iv TTI TroXu Tai/rjl Trofttiov ii; o
fjtn n '' • ,, *t !w aymffn

TO VftffKVnn TOT *'-;..: I fi i; Hal dlflV !,:.-:. XplCTOV {.'.;'• THf tljaf
aUTOU fbUlTpo? IV IIXoW.

These visits could not be innocent, since the Aai^uw Trogviiac (the demon of
forni­

cation) roXf/ufi >i avroi . . . tv [JUf wi if ITTWIITO aua-rtf a-^atfa, &c.
Actio 1. p.

901. Actio5.p. 1031.

