396 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the camp of their brethren, they found the pleasing in­

telligence, that Caled had already defeated and scattered

the Christian Arabs of the tribe of Gassan. In the

neighbourhood of Bosra, the springs of mount Hermon

descend in a torrent to the plain of Decapolis, or ten

cities; and the Hieromax, a name which has been cor­

rupted to Yermuk, is lost after a short course in the lake

of Tiberias.0 The banks of this obscure stream were il­

lustrated by a long and bloody encounter. On this mo­

mentous occasion, the public voice, and the modesty of

Abu Obediah, restored the command to the most de­

serving of the Moslems. Caled assumed his station in

the front, his colleague was posted in the rear, that the

disorder of the fugitives might be checked by his vene­

rable aspect and the sight of the yellow banner which

Mahomet had displayed before the walls of Chaibar.

The last line was occupied by the sister of Derar, with

the Arabian women who had enlisted in this holy war,

who were acccustomed to wield the bow and the lance,

and who in a moment of captivity had defended, against

the uncircumcised ravishers, their chastity and religion/

The exhortation of the general was brief and forcible.

Paradise is before you, the devil and hell-fire in your rear.

Yet such was the weight of the Roman cavalry, that the

right wing of the Arabs was broken and separated from

the main body. Thrice did they retreat in disorder, and

thrice were they driven back to the charge by the re­

proaches and blows of the women. In the intervals of

action, Abu Obeidah visited the tents of his brethren, -

prolonged their repose by repeating at once the prayers

of two different hours; bound up their wounds with his

» See Reland, Palestin. torn. 1. p. 272. 283. torn. 2. p. 773.775. This
learnrd

professor was equal to the task of describing the Holy Land, since be was
alike

conversant with Greek and Latin, with Hebrew and Arabian literature. The

Yermuk, or Hieromax, is noticed by Cellarius (Geograph. Antiq. torn. 2. p.
39?.)

and d'Anville. (Geographic Ancienne, torn. 2. p. 185.) The Arabs, and even

Abulfeda himself, do not seem to recognize the scene of their victory.

f These women were of the tribe of the Hamyarites.'who derived their origin

from the ancient Amalekites. Their females were accustomed to ride on
horseback,

and to fight like the Amazons of old. (Ockley, vol. 1. p. 67.)

