502 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the purity of taste, and the freedom of thought. Con­

fident in the riches of their native tongue, the Arabians

disdained the study of any foreign idiom. The Greek

interpreters were chosen among their Christian subjects;

they formed their translations, sometimes on the original

text, more frequently perhaps on a Syriac version; and

in the crowd of astronomers and physicians, there is no

example of a poet, an orator, or even an historian, being

taught to speak the language of the Saracens." The

mythology of Homer would have provoked the abhor­

rence of those stern fanatics; they possessed in lazy ig­

norance the colonies of the Macedonians, and the pro­

vinces of Carthage and Rome: the heroes of Plutarch

and Livy were buried in oblivion; and the history of the

world before Mahomet was reduced to a short legend of

the patriarchs, the prophets, and the Persian kings. Our

education in the Greek and Latin schools may have

fixed in our minds a standard of exclusive taste; and I

am not forward to condemn the litarature and judg­

ments of nations, of whose language I am ignorant. Yet

I know that the classics have much to teach, and I believe

that the orientals have much to learn: the temperate dig­

nity of style, the graceful proportions of art, the forms

of visible and intellectual beauty, the just delineation of

character and passion, the rhetoric of narrative and ar­

gument, the regular fabric of epic and dramatic poetry.*

The influence of truth and reason is of a less ambiguous

complexion. The philosophers of Athens and Rome

enjoyed the blessings and asserted the rights, of civil

and religious freedom. Their moral and political writ­

ings might have gradually unlocked the fetters of eastern

• Abulpharagius (Dynast, p. 26.148.) mentions a Syriat version of Homer's

two poems, by ThcophUus, a Christian Maronite of mount Libauus, who professed

astronomy at Roha or Edessa, towards the end of the eighth century. His work

would be a literary curiosity. I have read somewhere, out I do not believe,
that

Plutarch's Lives were translated into Turkish for the use of Mahomet the
Second.

b I have persused with much pleasure, sir William Jones's Latin Commeatvy

on Asiatic Poetry (London, 1774,in octavo), which was composed in the youth of

that wonderful linguist. At present, in the maturity of his taste and
judgment, he

would perhaps abate of the fervent, and even partial, praise which be has
bestowed

on the orientals.

