CHAP. XLVIL 55

rors of Manes, Apoilinaris, Eutyches, &c.; they signed

the sentence of excommunication on the tomb of St.

Peter; the ink was mingled with the sacramental wine,

the blood of Christ; and no ceremony was omitted that

could fill the superstitious mind with horror and affright.

As the representative of the western church, pope Mar­

tin and his Lateran synod anathematized the perfidious

and guilty silence of the Greeks; one hundred and five

bishops of Italy, for the most part the subjects of Con-

stans, presumed to reprobate his wicked type and the

impious ecthesis of his grandfather, and to confound the

authors, and their adherents, with the twenty-one noto­

rious heretics, the apostates from the church, and the or­

gans of the devil. Such an insult under the tamest reign

could not pass with impunity. Pope Martin ended his

days on the inhospitable shore of the Tauric Chersone-

sus, and his oracle, the abbot Maximus, was inhuman­

ly chastised by the amputation of his tongue and his

right hand.™ But the same invincible spirit survived in

their successors, and the triumph of the Latins avenged

sixfn their recent defeat, and obliterated the disgrace

council -, of the three chapters. The synods of Rome were

Constan- confirmed by the sixth general council of Con-

J^e'go stantinople, in the palace and the presence of a

HOT.?, 'jiew Constantine, a descendant of Heraclius.

Sep. 16. 'The royal convert converted the Byzantine pon­

tiff and a majority of the bishops;" the dissenters, with

their chief, Macarius of Antioch, were condemned to

the spiritual and temporal pains of heresy; the east con­

descended to accept the lessons of the west; and the

creed was finally settled, which teaches the Catholics of

"The sufferings of Martin and Maximus are described with pathetic simplicity

in the original letters and acts. (Concil. torn. t. p. fiS—78. Baron. Annal.
Eccles.

A. D. 636. no. 2. et annos subsequent.) Yet the chastisement of their
disobedience,

»?»j"» and fiifturx naf/not, had been previously announced in the type of
Constans.

(Concil. torn. 7. p. 240.)

• Entychius (Annal. torn. 2. p. 368.) most erroneously supposes that the one
hun­

dred and twenty-fooi bishops of the Roman synod transported themselves to Con­

stantinople; and, by adding them to the one hundred and sixty-eight Greeks,
thus

composes the ninth council of two hundred and ninety-two fathers.

