CHAP. XLVIII. 91

death, the maxims and influence of their domestic go­

vernment, and the tendency of their reign to accelerate

or suspend the downfal of the eastern empire. Such a

chronological review will serve to illustrate the various

arguments of the subsequent chapters; and each cir­

cumstance of the eventful story of the barbarians will

adapt itself in a proper place to the Byzantine an­

nals. The internal state of the empire, and the dan­

gerous heresy of the Paulicians, which shook the

east and enlightened the west, will be the subject of

two separate chapters; but these inquiries must be

postponed till our farther progress shall have opened

the view of the world in the ninth and tenth centuries

of the Christian era. After this foundation of Byzan­

tine history, the following nations will pass before our

eyes, and each will occupy the space to which it may

be entitled by greatness or merit, or the degree of con­

nexion with the Roman world and the present age.

I. The FRANKS; a general appellation which includes

all the barbarians of France, Italy, and Germany, who

were united by the sword and sceptre of Charlemagne.

The persecution of images and their votaries, separated

Rome and Italy from the Byzantine throne, and pre­

pared the restoration of the Roman empire in the west.

II. The AKABS or SARACENS. Three ample chapters

will be devoted to this curious and interesting object.

In the first, after a picture of the country and its inha­

bitants, I shall investigate the character of Mahomet;

the character, religion, and success, of the prophet. In

the second, I shall lead the Arabs to the conquest of

Syria, Egypt, and Africa, the provinces of the Roman

empire; nor can I check their victorious career till they

have overthrown the monarchies of Persia and Spain.

In the third, I shall inquire how Constantinople and

Europe were saved by the luxury and arts, the division

and decay, of the empire of the caliphs. A single

chapter will include, III. The BULGARIANS, IV. HUN-

