30 ROMAN EMPIRE.

voutly tortured the enemy of Christ and St. Cyril; and,

as far as the confines of ^Ethiopia, the heretic was al­

ternately dragged and recalled, till his aged body was

broken by the hardships and accidents of these reite­

rated journeys. Yet his mind was still independent and

erect; the president of Thebais was awed by his pasto­

ral letters; he survived the Catholic tyrant of Alexan­

dria, and, after sixteen years' banishment, the synod of

Chalcedon would perhaps have restored him to the ho­

nours, or at least to the communion of the church. The

death of Nestorius prevented his obedience to their wel­

come summons;' and his disease might afford some

colour to the scandalous report, that his tongue, the or­

gan of blasphemy, had been eaten by the worms. He

was buried in a city of Upper Egypt, known by the

names of Chemnis, or Panopolis, or Akmin ;k but the

immortal malice of the Jacobites has persevered for ages

to cast stones against his sepulchre, and to propagate the

foolish tradition, that it was never watered by the rain

of heaven, which equally descends on the righteous and

the ungodly.1 Humanity may drop a tear on the fate of

Nestorius; yet justice must observe,that he suffered the

persecution which he had approved and inflicted.™

The death of the Alexandrian primate, after a

EutychM, reign of thirty-two years, abandoned the Catho-

A. D.448. tne intemperance of zeal, and the abuse of

1 The invitation of Nestorius to the synod of Chalcedon, is related by
Zacharius

bishop of Melitene, (Evagrius, lib. 2. c. 2. Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn.
2. p. 55.)

and the famous Xenaias or Philoxenus, bishop of Hierapolis, (Asseman. Bibliot.

Orient, torn. 2. p. 40, &c.) denied by Evagrius and Asseman, and stoutly

maintained by La Croze. (Thesaur. Epistol. torn. 3. p. 181, &c.) The fact is
not

improbable ; yet it was the interest of the Monophysites to spread the
invidious

report; and Eutychius (torn. 2. p. 12.) affirms, that Nestorius died after an
exile of

seven years, and consequently ten years before the synod of Chalcedon.

k Consult d'Anville. (Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 191.) Pocock, Description of
the

East, vol. 1, p. 76.) Abulfeda, (Descript. Egypt, p. 14.) and his commentator
Mi-

chaelis, (Not. p. 78 — 83.) and the Nubian Geographer, (p. 42.) who mentions,
in the

twelfth century, the ruins and the sugar-canes of Akmirn.

Eutychius, (Annal. torn. 2. p. 1 2. ) and Gregory Bar-Hebraus, of
Abulpharagins,

(Asseman. torn. 2. p. 316.) represent the credulity of the tenth and
thirteenth cen­

turies.

01 We are obliged to Evagrius (lib. 1 . c. 7 ) for some extracts from the
letters of

Nestorius ; but the lively picture of his sufferings is treated with insult by
the hard

and stupid fanatic.

