CHAP. XLVI1I. 141

most important triumph of the Roman arms. Yet in­

stead of applauding their victorious prince, his subjects

detested the rapacious and rigid avarice of Basil; and

in the imperfect narrative of his exploits, we can only

discern the courage, patience, and ferociousness, of a

soldier. A vicious education, which could not subdue

his spirit, had, clouded his mind; he was ignorant of

every science; and the remembrance of his learned and

feeble grandsire might encourage a real or affected con­

tempt of laws and lawyers, of artists and arts. Of such

a character, in such an age, superstition took a firm

and lasting possession: after the first licence of his

youth, Basil II. devoted his life, in the palace and the

camp, to the penance of a hermit, wore the monastic

habit under his robes and armour, observed a vow of

continence, and imposed on his appetites a perpetual

abstinence from wine and flesh. In the sixty-eighth

year of his age, his martial spirit urged him to embark

in person for a holy war against the Saracens of Sicily;

he was prevented by death, and Basil, surnamed the

slayer of the Bulgarians, was dismissed from the world,

with the blessings of the clergy and the curses of the

Constan- people. After his decease, his brother Constan-

j» TV

AnD. 1025, tine enjoyed, about three years, the power, or

December.rather the pleasures, of royalty; and his only

care was the settlement of his succession. He had en­

joyed sixty-six years the title of Augustus; and the

reign of the two brothers is the longest, and most ob­

scure, of the Byzantine history.

Komanus ^ lineal succession of five emperors, in a pe-

*1L riod of one hundred and sixty years, had attach-  
A!D. loss, ed the loyalty of the Greeks to the Macedonian

dynasty, which had been thrice respected by the

usurpers of their power. After the death of Constan-

tine IX., the last male of the royal race, a new and

broken scene presents itself, and the accumulated years

of twelve emperors do not equal the space of his single

