CHAP. LII. 525

and respectful demeanour, the happiness of their subjects

and the security of their frontier. They were supplanted

by one of those adventurers so frequent in the annals of

the east, who left his trade of a brazier (from whence the

The Sof- name of Soffarides) for the profession of a robber

^"P"' In a nocturnal visit to the treasure of the prince

8?2—90?. of Sistan, Jacob, the son of Leith, stumbled over

a lump of salt, which he unwarily tasted with his tongue.

Salt, among the orientals, is the symbol of hospitality,

and the pious robber immediately retired without spoil

or damage. The discovery of this honourable behaviour

recommended Jacob to pardon and trust; he led an

army at first for his benefactor, at last for himself, sub­

dued Persia, and threatened the residence of the Abbas-

sides. On his march towards Bagdad, the conqueror

was arrested by a fever. He gave audience in bed to the

ambassador of the caliph; and beside him on a table

were exposed a naked scimitar, a crust of brown bread,

and a bunch of onions. If I die (said he), your master

is delivered from his fears. If I live, this must deter­

mine between us. If lam vanquished, lean return with­

out reluctance to the homely fare of my youth. From

the height where he stood, the descent would not have

been so soft or harmless: a timely death secured his own

repose and that of the caliph, who paid with the most

lavish concessions the retreat of his brother Amrou to

the palaces of Shiraz and Ispahan. The Abbassides

were too feeble to contend, too proud to forgive: they

.l^ Sa. invited the powerful dynasty of the Samanides,

mamdes, wno passed the Oxus with ten thousand horse,

ar*—999 so poor, that their stirrups were of wood; so brave

that they vanquished the Soffarian army, eight times

more numerous than their own. The captive Amrou was

sent in chains, a grateful offspring to the court of Bagdad,

and as the victor was content with the inheritance of

Transoxiania and Chorasan, the realms of Persia returned

for awhile to the allegiance of the caliphs. The pro-

