CHAP. XLVII. 67

God was offensive to their ear, and they measured with

scrupulous avarice the honours of the Virgin Mary,

whom the superstition of the Latins had almost exalted

to the rank of a goddess. When her image was first

presented to the disciples of St. Thomas, they indig­

nantly exclaimed, "We are Christians, not idolaters!"

and their simple devotion was content with the venera­

tion of the cross. Their separation from the western

world had left them in ignorance of the improvements

or corruptions of a thousand years: and their confor­

mity with the faith and practice of the fifth century,

would equally disappoint the prejudices of a Papist or a

Protestant. It was the first care of the ministers of

Rome to intercept all correspondence with the Nesto-

rian patriarch, and several of his bishops expired in the

prisons of the holy office. The flock, without a shep­

herd, was assaulted by the power of the Portuguese,

the arts of the Jesuits, and the zeal of Alexes de Me-

nezes, archbishop of Goa, in his personal visitation of

the coast of Malabar. The synod of Diamper, at

which he presided, consummated the pious work of the

reunion, and rigorously imposed the doctrine and dis­

cipline of the Roman church, without forgetting auri­

cular confession, the strongest engine of ecclesiastical

torture. The memory of Theodore and Nestorius was

condemned, and Malabar was reduced under the domi­

nion of the pope, of the primate, and of the Jesuits, who

invaded the see of Angamala or Cranganor. Sixty

years of servitude and hypocrisy were patiently en-

A. D, dured; but as soon as the Portuguese empire

lees. was shaken by the courage and industry of the

Dutch, the Nestorians asserted, with vigour and effect,

the religion of their fathers. The Jesuits were incapa­

ble of defending the power which they had abused: the

arms of forty thousand Christians were pointed against

their falling tyrants: and the Indian archdeacon assumed

the character of bishop, till a fresh supply of episcopal,

F2

