CHAP. LI. 361

invaded the successors of Augustus, and those of Ar-

taxerxes; and the rival monarchies at the same instant

became the prey of an enemy whom they had been so

long accustomed to despise. In the ten years of the

administration of Omar, the Saracens reduced to his

obedience thirty-six thousand cities or castles, destroyed

four thousand churches or temples of the unbelievers,

and edified fourteen hundred moschs for the exercise of

the religion of Mahomet. One hundred years after his

flight from Mecca, the arms and the reign of his suc­

cessors extended from India to the Atlantic ocean, over

the various and distant provinces, which may be com­

prised under the names of, I. Persia; II. Syria; III.

Egypt; IV. Africa; and, V. Spain. Under this general

division, I shall proceed to unfold these memorable

transactions; dispatching with brevity the remote and

less interesting conquests of the east, and reserving a

fuller narrative for those domestic countries, which had

been included within the pale of the Roman empire.

Yet I must excuse my own defects by a just complaint

of the blindness and insufficiency of my guides. The

Greeks, so loquacious in controversy, have not been

anxious to celebrate the triumphs of their enemies.k

After a century of ignorance, the first annals of the Mus­

sulmans were collected in a great measure from the voice

of tradition.1 Among the numerous productions of

k For the seventh and eighth centuries, we have scarcely any original evidence

of the Byzantine historians, except the chronicles ofTheophanes (Theophanis
Cou-

fessoris Chronographia, Gr. et Lit. cum noti-, Jacobi Goar. Paris, 1655, in
folio);

and the abridgment of Nicephorus (Nicephori Patriarchae C. P. Breviarum His-

toricum, Gr. et Lat. Paris, 1648, in folio); who both lived in the beginning
of the

ninth century, (see flam-kins de Scriptor. Byzant. p. 200—246.) Their contem­

porary Pholius does not seem to be more opulent. After praising the style of

Nicephorus, he adds, Kai i\x; iroXXoi*; ITI Ttn wp» aimv avoxfuvrojunc; Tjii
THC

icrT;.;ia.-, TI fvt^fa^v, and only complains of his extreme brevity. (Phot.
Bibliot.

cod. 66. p. 100.) Some additions may be gleaned from the more recent histories

of Cedrenus and Zonaras of the twelfth century.

. 'Tabari, or Al Tabari, a native of Taborestan, a famous imam of Bagdad, and

the 1 ,i v v of the Arabians, finished his general history in the year of the
Hegira S03.

(A.I). 914.) At the request of his friends, he reduced a work of thirty
thousand

sheets to a more reasonable size. But his Arabic original is known only by the

Persian and Turkish versions. The Saracenic history of Ebn Amid, or Klmacin,

is said to be an abridgment of the great Tabari. (Ockley's Hist, of the
Saracens,

vol.2. preface, p. 39. aud, list of authors, d'Herbclot, p. 866. 870. 1014.)

