444 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Their se- faithful ally. The Saracens landed" at the

condde- pillar or point of Europe; the corrupt and fami-

A.D.'rn, liar appellation of Gibraltar (Gebel al Tarik)

f' describes the mountain of Tarik; and the in-

trenchments of his camp were the first outline of those

fortifications, which, in the hands of our countrymen,

have resisted the art and power of the house of Bourbon.

The adjacent governors informed the court of Toledo

of the descent and progress of the Arabs; and the de­

feat of his lieutenant Edeco, who had been commanded

to seize and bind the presumptuous strangers, admo­

nished Roderic of the magnitude of the danger. At

the royal summons, the dukes, and counts, the bishops

and nobles of the Gothic monarchy, assembled at the

head of their followers; and the title of king of the Ro­

mans, which is employed by an Arabic historian, may

be excused by the close affinity of language, religion,

and manners, between the nations of Spain. His army

consisted of ninety or a hundred thousand men; a for­

midable power, if their fidelity and discipline had been

adequate to their numbers. The troops of Tarik had

been augmented to twelve thousand Saracens; but the

Christian malecontents were attracted by"the influence of

Julian, and a crowd of Africans most greedily tasted the

temporal blessings of the Koran. In the neighbour­

hood of Cadiz, the town of Xeres0 has been illustrated

encounter which determined the fate

and view'

July 19 of the kingdom; the stream of the Guadalete,

which falls into the bay, divided the two camps,

and marked the advancing and retreating skirmishes of

three successive and bloody days. On the fourth day,

the two armies joined a more serious and decisive issue;

"The Nubian Geographer (p. 154.) explains the topography of the war; but it

is highly incredible that the lieutenant of Musa should execute the desperate
ud

useless measure of burning bis ships.

0 Xeres (the Roman colony of Asia Regia) is only two leagues from Cadiz. In

the sixteenth century it was a granary of com; and the wine of Xeres is
familiar

to the nations of Europe. (Lud. Nonii Hispania. c. I3. p. 54—56. a work of cor

rect and concise knowledge; d'Anville, Etats de 1'Europe, &c. p. 154.)

