CHAP. L. 201

knowledge. Among the forty-two cities of Arabia,0

enumerated by Abulfeda, the most ancient and popu­

lous were situate in the happy Yemen: the towers of

Saana,p and the marvellous reservoir of Merabq Were

constructed by the kings of the Homerites; but their

profane lustre was eclipsed by the prophetic

glories of MEDINA' and MECCA,*near the Red

sea, and at the distance from each other of two hundred

and seventy miles. The last of these holy places was

known to the Greeks under the name of Macoraba; and

the termination of the word is expressive of its greatness,

which has not indeed, in the most flourishing period, ex­

ceeded the size and populousness of Marseilles. Some la­

tent motive, perhaps of superstition, must have impelled

the founders, in the choice of amostunpromisingsituation.

They erected their habitations of mud or stone, in a plain

about two miles long and one mile broad, at the foot of

three barren mountains: the soil is a rock, the water, even

of the holy well of Zemzem, is bitter or brackish; the

pastures are remote from the city; and grapes are trans-

- Yet Marcian of Heraclea (in Periplo, p. 16. in torn. 1. Hudson, Minor. Geo-  
graph.) reckons one hundred and sixty-four towns in Arabia Felix. The size of
the.

towns might be small—the faith of the writer might be large.

i' It is compared by Abulfeda (in Hudson, torn. 3. p. 54.) to Damascus, and is

still the residence of the Iman of Yemen. (Voyages de Niebuhr, torn. 1. p.
331—

342.) Saana is twenty-four parasangs from Dasar, (Abulfeda, p. 51.) and sixty-

eight from Aden. (p. 53.)

1 Pocock, Specimen, p. 57. Geograph. Nubiensis, p. 52. Moriaba, or Merab,

six miles in circumference, was destroyed by the legions of Augustus, (Plin.
Hist.

Nat. 6 32.) and had not revived in the fourteenth century. (Abulfed. Descript.

Arab. p. 58.)

r The name of city, Medina, was appropriated xar' tf t,xn, to Yatreb (the
Latrippa

of the Greeks), the seat of the prophet. The distances of Medina are reckoned
by

Abulfeda in stations, or days'journey of a caravan: (p. 15.) to Bahrein,
fifteen; to

Bassora, eighteen; to Cusah, twenty; to Damascus or Palestine, twenty; to
Cairo,'

twenty-five; to Mecca, ten; from Mecca to Saana, (p. 52.) or Aden, thirty; to

Cairo, thirty-one days, or four hundred and twelve hours; (Shaw's Travels, p.
477.)

which, according to the estimate of d'Anville, (Mesures Itineraires, p. 99.)
allows

about twenty-five English miles for a day's journey. From the land of
frankincense

(Hadramant, in Yemen, between Aden and Cape Fartasch) to Gaza, in Syria, Pliny

(Hist. Nat. 12. 32.) computes sixty-five mansions of camels. These measures
may

assist fancy and elucidate facts.

• Our notions of Mecca must be drawn from the Arabians, (d'Herbelot, Biblio-

theque Orientate, p. 368—371. Pocock,Specimen, p. 125—128. Abulfeda, p. 11—

40) As no unbeliever is permitted to enter the city, our travellers are
silent; and

the short hints of Thevenot (Voyages du Levant, part 1. p. 490.) are taken
from

the suspicious mouth of an African renegado. Some Persians counted six
thousand

houses. (Chardiu, torn. 4. p. 167.)

