228 ROMAN EMPIRE.

escaped from the French yoke.' IV. Charle­

magne was the first who united GERMANY un­

der the same sceptre. The name of Oriental France is

preserved in the circle of Franconia; and the people

of Hesse and Thuringia were recently incorporated with

the victors, by the conformity of religion and govern­

ment. The Alemanni, so formidable to the Romans,

were the faithful vassals and confederates of the Franks;

and their country was inscribed within the modern limits

of A Isace, Swabia, and Switzerland. The Bavarians, with

a similar indulgence of their laws and manners, were

less patient of a master: the repeated treasons of Ta-

sillo justified the abolition of her hereditary dukes;

and their power was shared among the counts, who

judged fcnd guarded that important frontier. But the

north of Germany, from the Rhine, and beyond the

Elbe, was still hostile and Pagan; nor was it till after

a war of thirty-three years that the Saxons bowed un­

der the yoke of Christ and Charlemagne. The idols

and their votaries were extirpated: the foundation of

eight bishoprics, of Munster, Osnaburgh, Paderborn,

and Minden, of Bremen, Verden, Hildesheim, and

Halberstadt, define, on either side of the Weser, the

bounds of ancient Saxony: these episcopal seats were

the first schools and cities of that savage land; and the

religion and humanity of the children atoned, in some

degree, for the massacre of the parents. Beyond the

Elbe, the Slavi, or Sclavonians, of similar manners and

various denominations, overspread the modern domi­

nions of Prussia, Poland, and Bohemia, and some tran­

sient marks of obedience have tempted the French his­

torian to extend the empire to the Baltic and the Vis­

tula. The conquest or conversion of those countries

is of a more recent age; but the first union of Bohemia

with the Germanic body may be justly ascribed to the

arms of Charlemagne. V. He retaliated on the Avars,

• See Giannone, torn. 1. p. 374, 375. and the Annals of Muratori.

