248 ROMAN EMPIRE.

on the powerful, who aspired to command. The empire

of Charlemagne and Otho was distributed among the

dukes of the nations or provinces, the counts of the

smaller districts, and the margraves of the marches or

frontiers, who all united the civil and military authority

as it had been delegated to the lieutenants of the first

Caesars. The Roman governors, who, for the most part,

were soldiers of fortune, seduced their mercenary legions,

assumed the imperial purple, and either failed or suc­

ceeded in their revolt, without wounding the power and

unity of government. If the dukes, margraves, and

counts, of Germany, were less audacious in their claims,

the consequences of their success were more lasting and

pernicious to the state. Instead of aiming at the su­

preme rank, they silently laboured to establish and ap­

propriate their provincial independence. Their ambition

was seconded by the weight of their estates and vassals,

their mutual example and support, the common interest

of the subordinate nobility, the change of princes and

families, the minorities of Otho III. and Henry IV., the

ambition of the popes, and the vain pursuits of the fugi­

tive crowns of Italy and Rome. All the attributes of

regal and territorial jurisdiction were gradually usurped

by the commanders of the provinces; the right of peace

and war, of life and death, of coinage and taxation, of

foreign alliance and domestic economy. Whatever had

been seized by violence, was ratified by favour or dis­

tress, was granted as the price of a doubtful vote or a

voluntary service; whatever had been granted to one,

could not, without injury, be denied to his successor or

equal; and every act of local or temporary possession was

insensibly moulded into the constitution of the Germanic

kingdom. In every province, the visible presence of the

duke or count was interposed between the throne and

the nobles; the subjects of the law became the vassals

of a private chief; and the standard, which he received

from his sovereign, was often raised against him in the

