CHAP. XLVIII. 129

fund was appropriated to each service; and a public

method secured the interest of the prince and the pro­

perty of the people. After reforming the luxury, he as­

signed two patrimonial estates to supply the decent

plenty, of the imperial table: the contributions of the

subject were reserved for his defence; and the residue

was employed in the embellishment of the capital and

provinces. A taste for building, however costly, may

deserve some praise and much excuse; from thence in­

dustry is fed, art is encouraged, and some object is at­

tained of public emolument or pleasure; the use of a

road, an aqueduct, or an hospital, is obvious and solid;

and the hundred churches that arose by the command

of Basil, were consecrated to the devotion of the age.

In the character of a judge he was assiduous and impar­

tial; desirous to save,, but not afraid to strike: the op­

pressors of the people were severely chastised; but his

personal foes, whom it might be unsafe to pardon, were

condemned, after the loss of their eyes, to a life of so­

litude and repentance. The change of language and

manners demanded a revision of the obsolete jurispru­

dence of Justinian: the voluminous body of his insti­

tutes, pandects, code, and novels, was digested under

forty titles, in the Greek idiom; and the Basilics, which

were improved and completed by his son and grandson,

must be referred to the original genius of the founder

of their race. This glorious reign was terminated by

an accident in the chase. A furious stag entangled his

horns in the belt of Basil, and raised him from his horse;

he was rescued by an attendant, who cut the belt and

slew the animal; but the fall, or the fever, exhausted

the strength of the aged monarch, and he expired in the

palace, amidst the tears of his family and people. If he

struck off the head of the faithful servant, for presuming

to draw his sword against his sovereign, the pride of

despotism, which had lain dormant in his life, revived in

VOL. VI, K

