CHAP. LI. 387

to respect his promise, to suspend their fury, and to wait

the determination of- their chiefs. The chiefs retired

into the church of St. Mary; and after a vehement de­

bate, Caled submitted in some measure to the reason

and authority of his colleague; who urged the sanctity

of a covenant, the advantage as well as the honour which

the Moslems would derive from the punctual perform­

ance of their word, and the obstinate resistance which

they must encounter from the distrust and despair of the

rest of the Syrian cities. It was agreed that the sword

should be sheathed; that the part of Damascus which

had surrendered to Abu Obeidah, should be immediately

entitled to the benefit of his capitulation; and that the

final decision should be referred to the justice and wis­

dom of the caliph.p A large majority of the people

accepted the terms of toleration and tribute; and Da­

mascus is still peopled by twenty thousand Christians.

But the valiant Thomas, and the freeborn patriots who

had fought under his banner, embraced the alternative

of poverty and exile. In the adjacent meadow, a nu­

merous encampment was formed of priests and laymen,

of soldiers and citizens, of women and children: they

collected, with haste and terror, their most precious

moveables; and abandoned with loud lamentations or

silent anguish their native homes, and the pleasant banks

of the Pharphar. The inflexible soul of Caled was not

touched by the spectacle of their distress; he disputed

with the Damascenes the property of a magazine of corn;

endeavoured to exclude the garrison from the benefit of

the treaty; consented, with reluctance, that each of the

fugitives should arm himself with a sword, or a lance, or

a bow; and sternly declared, that, after a respite of three

4ays, they might be pursued and treated as the enemies

of the Moslems.

i' It appears from Abulfeda (p. 125.) and Elmacin, (p. :,'„,.) that this
distinction

of the two parts of Damascus was long remembered, though not always respected,

by the Mahometan sovereigns. See likewise Eutychius. (Anna1, torn. 2. p. 379.

380. 383.)

2c 2

