CHAP. LF. 355

which had been idly spent in domestic quarrels, was vi­

gorously directed against a foreign enemy. Had the

impulse been less powerful, Arabia, free at home, and

formidable abroad, might have flourished under a suc­

cession of her native monarchs. Her sovereignty was

lost by the extent and rapidity of conquest. The colo­

nies of the nation were scattered over the east and west,

and their blood was mingled with the blood of their con­

verts and captives. After the reign of three caliphs, the

throne was transported from Medina to the valley of

Damascus and the banks of the Tigris; the holy cities

were violated by impious war: Arabia was ruled by the

rod of a subject, perhaps of a stranger; and the Bedo-

weens of the desert, awakening from their dream of do­

minion, resumed their old and solitary independence.*

CHAP. U.

The conquest of Persia, Syria, Egypt, Africa, and Spain, by the

Arabs or Saracens. — Empire of the caliphs, or successors of Ma­

homet — State of the Christians, &c. under their government.

Union of revolution of Arabia had not changed the

the Arabs, character of the Arabs; the death of Mahomet

''was the signal of independence; and the hasty

structure of his power and religion tottered to its foun­

dations. A small and faithful band of his primitive

disciples had listened to his eloquence, and shared his

distress; had fled with the apostle from the persecution

'The writers of the Modem Universal History (vol. 1. and 2.) have compiled,

in eight hundred and fifty folio pages, the life of Mahomet and the annals of
the ca­

liphs. They enjoyed the advantage of reading, and sometimes correcting the

Arabic text; yet, notwithstanding their high-sounding boasts, I cannot find,
after

the conclusion of my work, that they have afforded me much, if any, additional
in­

formation. The dull mass is not quickened by a spark of philosophy or taste ;
and

the compilers indulge the criticism of acrimonious bigotry against
Boulainvilliers,

Sale, Cagnies, aid all who even treated Mahomet with favour, or c-v en
justice.

2 A 2

