464 ROMAN EMPIRE.

restraints must be offensive to the pride or the zeal of the

Christians.1" About two hundred years after Mahomet,

they were separated from their fellow-subjects by a tur­

ban or girdle of a less honourable colour; instead of

horses or mules, they were condemned to ride on asses,

in the attitude of women. Their public and private

buildings were measured by a diminutive standard; in

the streets of the baths it is their duty to give way or bow

down before the meanest of the people; and their testi­

mony is rejected, if it may tend to the prejudice of a true

believer. The pomp of processions, the sounds of bells

or of psalmody, is interdicted in their worship: a decent

reverence for the national faith, is imposed on their ser­

mons and conversations; and the sacrilegious attempt to

enter a mosch, or to seduce a Mussulman, will not be

suffered to escape with impunity. In a time, however,

of tranquillity and justice, the Christians have never been

compelled to renounce the Gospel or to embrace the

Koran: but the punishment of death is inflicted upon

the apostates who have professed and deserted the law

of Mahomet. The martyrs of Cordova provoked the

sentence of the cadhi, by the public confession of their

inconstancy, or their passionate invectives against the

person and religion of the prophet.1

The em- At the end of the first century of the Hegira,

caliphs0"* tne canphs were the most potent and absolute

A.D.71B. monarchs of the globe. Their prerogative was

not circumscribed, either in right or in fact, by the power

of the nobles, the freedom of the commons, the privileges

k Heland explains the general restraints of the Mahometan policy and jurispru­

dence. (Dissertat. torn. 3. p. 16—20.) The oppressive edicts of the caliph
Mota-

wakkel, (A. D. 847—861.) which are still in force, are noticed by Eutychius
(An-

nal. torn. t. p. 448.) and d'Herbelot. (Bibliot. Orient, p. 640.) A
persecution of

the caliph Omar II. is related, and most probably magnified, by the Greek
Theo-

phancs. (Chron. p. 334.)

1 The martyrs of Cordova (A. D. 850, &c.) are commemorated and justified by

St. Eulogius, who at length fell a victim himself. A synod, convened by the
caliph,

ambiguously censured their rashness. The moderate Fleury cannot reconcile
their

conduct with the discipline of antiquity, toutefois 1'autorite de l'Egli<e,
&c.

(Fleury, Hist. Eccles. torn. 10. p. 415—5*2. particularly p. 451. 508,509.)
Their

authentic acts throw a strong though a transient light on the Spanish church
in the

ninth century.

