342 ROMAN EMPIRE.

predecessors, the esteem and confidence of the Moslems;

during a siege of six weeks his water and provisions were

intercepted, and the feeble gates of the palace were pro­

tected only by the scruples of the more timorous rebels.

Forsaken by those who had abused his simplicity, the

helpless and venerable caliph expected the approach of

death: the brother of Ayesha marched at the head of

Death of the assassins; and Othman, with the Koran in

A^ixe^s, his lap, was pierced with a multitude of wounds.

June is. A tumultuous anarchy of five days was appeased

by the inauguration of Ali; his refusal would have pro­

voked a general massacre. In this painful situation he

supported the becoming pride of the chief of the Ha-

shemites; declared that he had rather serve than reign:

rebuked the presumption of the strangers; and required

the formal, if not the voluntary, assent of the chiefs of the

nation. He: has never been accused of promoting the as­

sassin of Omar; though Persia indiscreetly celebrates the

festival of that holy martyr. The quarrel between Othman

and his subjects was assuaged by the early mediation of

Ali; and Hassan, the eldest of his sons, was insulted and

wounded in the defence of the caliph. Yet it is doubt­

ful whether the father of Hassan was strenuous and sin­

cere in his opposition to the rebels; and it is certain that

he enjoyed the benefit of their crime. The temptation

was indeed of such magnitude as might stagger and cor­

rupt the most obdurate virtue. The ambitious candidate

no longer aspired to the barren sceptre of Arabia: the

Saracens had been victorious in the east and west; and

the wealthy kingdoms of Persia, Syria, and Egypt, were

the patrimony of the commander of the faithful.

prayer and contemplation had not

AH, A. D. chilled the martial activity of Ali; but in a rna-

655—668. J . .

ture age, atter a long experience of mankind, he

still betrayed in his conduct the rashness and indiscre­

tion of youth. In the first days of his reign, he neg­

