CHAP. L. 345

were subdued or seduced by his crafty rival; and the

stroke of fanaticism which was aimed against -the three

chiefs of the nation, was fatal only to the cousin of Ma­

homet. In the temple of Mecca, three Charegites or

enthusiasts discoursed of the disorders of the church and

state ; they soon agreed, that the deaths of Ali, of Moa-

wiyah, and of his friend Amrou, the viceroy of Egypt,

would restore the peace and unity of religion. Each of

the assassins chose his victim, poisoned his dagger, de­

voted his life, and secretly repaired to the scene*of action.

Their resolution was equally desperate; but the first

mistook the person of Amrou, and stabbed the deputy

who occupied his seat; the prince of Damascus was

dangerously hurt by the second; the lawful caliph, in

the mosch of Cufa, received a mortal wound from the

hand of the third. He expired in the sixty-third year

of his age, and mercifully recommended to his children,

that they would dispatch the murderer by a single stroke.

The sepulchre of Ali° was concealed from the tyrants of

the house of Ommiyah,p but in the fourth age of the

Hegira, a tomb, a temple, a city, arose near the ruins of

Cufa.q Many thousands of the Schiites repose in holy

ground at the feet of the vicar of God; and the desert is

vivified by the numerous and annual visits of the Per­

sians, who esteem their devotion not less meritorious than

the pilgrimage of Mecca.

Reign of The persecutors of Mahomet usurped the in-

M^^'heritance of his children; and the champions

or 66i— of idolatry became the supreme heads of his re­

ligion and empire. The opposition of Abu So­

• Abulfeda, a modem Sonnite, relates the different opinions concerning the

hutiiil of AH, but adopts the sepulchre of Cufa, hodie fam& numeroque
religiose

irequentantium celebraturn. This number is reckoned by Niebuhr to amount an­

nually to (wo thousand of the dead, and five thousand of the living, (torn.*,

p. 208, 209.)

P All the tyrants of Persia, from Adhad el Dowlat (A. D. 977, d'Herbelot, p.
58,

59. 95.) to Nadir Shah, (A.D. 1743, Hist, de Nadir Shah, torn. 9. p. 155.)
have

enriched the tomb of Ali with the spoils of the people. The dome is copper,
with

a bright and massy gilding, which glitters to the sun at the distance of many
a mile.

i The city of Meshed Ali, five or six miles from the ruins of Cufa, and one

hundred and twenty to the south of Bagdad, is of the size and form of the
modern

Jerusalern. Meshed Hosein, larger and more populous, is at the distance of
thirty

miles.

