CIIAP. L. 27$

in the wars of Titus; and Hadrian,. Tfye industrious

exiles aspired to liberty and power; they erected syna­

gogues in the, castles and qties in the wilderness, and

their gentile converts were confounded with the chil­

dren ojT Israel, whom they resembled in the outward.

•The Chru- mai,k pf circumcision. The Christian mjs-

ti^s. sionaries were still more active and successful:

the Catholics asserted their universal reign; the sects

whom they oppressed successively seared beyond the

liin^s pf the Roman empire; the JVlarc^nites and the

tylaflichaeans dispersed their fantastic opinions and

apocryphal gospejs; thp churches of Ye.rn.en, and the.

princes of Hira and Gassan, were instructed in a purer

creed by the Jacobite and I^estorian bishops.0 The li­

berty of phoice was presented to th$ tribes; each Arab

was free to elect or to compose his private religion; and

the rude superstition of his house was mingled with

the subjjme theology of s.aints and philosophers. A

fundamental article, p,f faith was jnculcated by the con-

sen.t of the Iearne4 strangers; the existence of one su­

preme proxj, wjio is exalted above the powers of heaven

and earth, but who has often revealed himself tq man-

kinfj. by the ministry pf his angels and prophets, and

whose grace or justice has interrupted, by seasonable

miracles, the order of nature. The most rational of

d»e Arabs acknowledged his power, though they neg-

lected his worship;11 and it was habit rather than con-

victipn that still attached them to the relics of idolatry.

The Jews and Christians were the people of the book:

the Bible was already translated into the Arabic lan­

guage;'1 and the volume of the Old Testament was ac­

cepted by the concord of these implacable enemies.

0 The state of the Jews and Christians in Arabia is described by Pocock from

Sharestanl,'&c. (Specimen, p. 60.134, &c.) Hottinger, (Hist. Orient, p. 212—

238.) d'Herbelot, (Bibliot . Orient, p. 474—476.) Basnage, (Hist, des Juifs,
torn.

7. p. 185. torn. 8. p. 280.) and Sale. (Preliminary Discourse, p.22,&c.33,&c.)

P In their offerings, it was a maxim to defraud God for the profit of the
idol,

not a more potent, hut a more irritable, patron. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 108,
109.)

1 Our versions now extant, whether Jewish or Christian, appear more recerit

than the Koran; but the existence of a prior translation may be fairly
inferred,^—

1. From the perpetual practice of the synagogue, of expounding the Hebrew
lesson

by a paraphrase in the vulgar tongue of tin. country. 2. From the Analogy of

