388 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Pursuit of The passion of a Syrian youth completed the

the Dama- ruin of the exiles of Damascus. A nobleman of

the city, of the name of Jonas,q was betrothed to

a wealthy maiden; but her parents delayed the con­

summation of his nuptials, and their daughter was per­

suaded to escape with the man whom she had chosen.

They corrupted the nightly watchmen of the gate Keisan:

the lover, who led the way, was encompassed by a squa­

dron of Arabs: but his exclamation in the Greek tongue,

—The bird is taken, admonished his mistress to hasten

her return. In the presence of Caled, and of death, the

unfortunate Jonas professed his belief in one God, and his

apostle Mahomet; and continued, till the season of his

martyrdom, to discharge the duties of a brave and sin­

cere Mussulman. When the city was taken, he flew to

the monastery where Eudocia had taken refuge; but

the lover was forgotten; the apostate was scorned; she

preferred her religion to her country; and the justice of

Caled, though deaf to mercy, refused to detain by force

a male or female inhabitant of Damascus. Four days

was the general confined to the city by the obligation

of the treaty, and the urgent cares of his new conquest.

His appetite for blood and rapine would have been ex­

tinguished by the hopeless computation of time and dis­

tance; but he listened to the importunities of Jonas,

who assured him that the weary fugitives might yet be

overtaken. At the head of four thousand horse, in the

disguise of Christian Arabs, Caled undertook the pursuit.

They halted only for the moments of prayer; and the

guide had a perfect knowledge of the country. For a

long way the footsteps of the Damascenes were plain

i On the fate of these lovers, whom he names Phocyas and Eudocia,' Mr. Hughes

has built the siege of Damascus, one of our most popular tragedies, and which

possesses the rare merit of blending nature and history, the manners of the
times

and the feelings of the heart. The foolish delicacy of the players compelled
him

to soften the guilt of the hero and the despair of the heroine. Instead of &
base

renegade, Phocyas serves the Arabs as an honourable ally; instead of prompting

their pursuit, he flies to the succour of his countrymen, and, after killing
Caled and

Derar, is himself mortally wounded, and expires in the presence of Eudocia,
who

professes her resolution to take the veil at Constantinople. A frigid
catastrophe!

