234 ROMAN EMPIRE.

empire, was exalted to reign over their conquerors. His

A. -96'- father Henry the Fowler was elected, by the

suffrage of the nation, to save and institute the king足

dom of Germany. Its limits0 were enlarged on every

side by his son, the first and greatest of the Othos. A

portion of Gaul, to the west of the Rhine, along the

banks of the Meuse and the Moselle, was assigned to

the Germans, by whose blood and language it has been

tinged since the time of Caesar and Tacitus. Between

the Rhine, the Rhone, and the Alps, the successors of

Otho acquired a vain supremacy over the broken king足

doms of Burgundy and Arles. In the north, Christianity

was propagated by the sword of Otho, the conqueror

and apostle of the Slavic nations of the Elbe and Oder;

the marches of Brandenburg and Sleswick were fortified

with German colonies; and the king of Denmark, the

dukes of Poland and Bohemia, confessed themselves

his tributary vassals. At the head of a victorious army,

he passed the Alps, subdued the kingdom of Italy, de足

livered the pope, and for ever fixed the imperial crown

in the name and nation of Germany. From that me足

morable era, two maxims of public jurisprudence were

introduced by force and ratified by time. I. That the

prince who was elected in the German diet, acquired

from that instant the subject kingdoms of Italy and

Rome. II. But that he might not legally assume the

titles of emperor and Augustus, till be had received the

crown from the hands of the Roman pontiff.d

^he imperial dignity of Charlemagne was

announced to the east by the alteration of his

and eaitem style; and instead of saluting his fathers, the

empires. Qreeij emperors, he presumed to adopt the

c See the treatise of Coringius (de Finibus Imperil Gennanici, Francofurt.
1680,

in quarto), be rejects the extravagant and improper scale of the Roman and
Carlo-

vingian empires, and discusses with moderation the rights of Germany, her
vassals,

and her neighbours.

d The power of custom forces me to number Conrad L and Henry I. the Fowler,

in the list of emperors, a title which was never assumed by those kings of
Germany.

The Italians, Muratori, for instance, are more scrupulous and correct, and
only

reckon the princes who have been crowned at Rome.

