CHAP. XLVIII. 101

the instant death of the tyrant. But Leontius, who was

already clothed with the purple, cast an eye of pity on the

prostrate son of his own benefactor and of so many em­

perors. The life of Justinian was spared; the amputa­

tion of his nose, perhaps of his tongue, was imperfectly

performed: the happy flexibility of the Greek language

could impose the name of Rhinotmetus; and the muti­

lated tyrant was banished to Chersonae in Crim-Tartary,

a lonely settlement, where corn, wine, and oil, were

imported as foreign luxuries.

On the edge of the Scythian wilderness, Jus-

His exile, ° ,

A. D. tinian still cherished the pride of his birth and

'the hope of his restoration. After three years'

exile, he received the pleasing intelligence that his in­

jury was avenged by a second revolution, and that Leon­

tius in his turn had been dethroned and mutilated by

the rebel Apsimar, who assumed the more respectable

name of Tiberius. But the claim of lineal succession

was still formidable to a plebeian usurper; and his jea­

lousy was stimulated by the complaints and charges of

the Chersonites, who beheld the vices of the tyrant in

the spirit of the exile. With a band of followers, attach­

ed to his person by common hope or common despair,

Justinian fled from the inhospitable shore to the horde

of the Chozars, who pitched their tents between the

Tanais and Borysthenes. The khan entertained with

pity and respect the royal suppliant: Phanagoria, once

an opulent city, on the Asiatic side of the lake Mceotis,

was assigned for his residence; and every Roman pre­

judice was stifled in his marriage with the sister of the

barbarian, who seems, however, from the name of Theo­

dora, to have received the sacrament of baptism. But

the faithless Chozar was soon tempted by the gold of

Constantinople; and had not the design been revealed

by the conjugal love of Theodora, her husband must

have been assassinated, or betrayed into the power of

his enemies. After strangling, with his own hands, the

