CHAP. LI. 357

fused the terror of their arms; and the appearance of

military force revived and confirmed the loyalty of the

faithful. The inconstant tribes accepted, with humble

repentance, the duties of prayer, and fasting, and alms;

and, after some examples of success and severity, the

most daring apostates fell prostrate before the sword of

the Lord and of Caled. In the fertile province of Ya-

manah,* between the Red sea and the gulf of Persia, in

a citynot inferior to Medina itself, a powerful chief, his

name was Moseilama, had assumed the character of a

prophet, and the tribe of Hanifa listened to his voice. A

female prophetess was attracted by his reputation: the

decencies of words and actions were spurned by these fa­

vourites of heaven ;b and they employed several days in

mystic and amorous converse. An obscure sentence of

his Koran, or book, is yet extant ;c and, in the pride of

his mission, Moseilama condescended to offer a partition

of the earth. The proposal was answered by Mahomet

with contempt: but the rapid progress of the impostor

awakened the fears of his successor; forty thousand

Moslems were assembled under the standard of Caled;

and the existence of their faith was resigned to the event

of a decisive battle. In the first action, they were re­

pulsed with the loss of twelve hundred men; but the

a See the description of the city and country of Al Yamanah, in Abulfeda, 1
><•-

script. Arahi»-, p. 60, 61. In the thirteenth century, there were some mins,
and a

few palms: but in the present century, the same ground is occupied bythe
vision*

and arms of a modern prophet, whose tenets are imperfectly known. (Niebuhr,

Description de 1'Arabie, p. 296—301.)

'• Their first salutation may be transcribed, but cannot be translated. It wa»

thus that Moseilama said or sung :—

Surge tandem itaque strenue permolenda, nam stratus tibi thorus eat.

Ant in propatulo tentoriosi velis, aut in abditiorecubiculou malis;

Aut suspinam te 1mmi exporrectam fustigabo, si velis, aut si malis manibus
iit-

dibusque nixarn.

Aut si veins ejus (Priapi) gemino triente, aut si mails totus veniarn.

Imo, totus venito, O Apostole Dei clamabat fsmina. Id ipsum diceba..

Moseilama mihi quoque suggessit Deus.

The prophetess Segjah, after the fall of her lover, returned to idolatry; but,
under

the reign of Moawiyah, she became a Mussulman, and died atBassora. (Abulfeda,

Anna), vers. Keiske, p. 63.

*' See this text, which demonstrates a god from the work of generation, in Abul-  
pharagius (Specimen Hist. Arabum, p. 13. and Dynast, p. 105.) and Abulfeda.

(Annal. p. 63.)

