CHAP. LI I. 485

They re- tory of the Franks was complete and final; Aqui-

fore'thT tam was recovered by the arms of Eudes; the Arabs

Franks. never resumed the conquest of Gaul, and they

were soon driven beyond the Pyrennees by Charles Martel

and his valiant race.k It might have been expected that

the saviour of Christendom would have been canonized,

or at least applauded, by the gratitude of the clergy, who

are indebted to his sword for their present existence.

But in the public distress the mayor of the palace had

been compelled to apply the riches, or at least the re­

venues, of the bishops and abbots, to the relief of the

state and the reward of the soldiers. His merits were

forgotten, his sacrilege alone was remembered, and, in

an epistle to a Carlovingian prince, a Gallic synod pre­

sumes to declare that his ancestor was damned; that on

the opening of his tomb, the spectators were affrighted

by a smell of fire and the aspect of a horrid dragon; and

that a saint of the times was indulged with a pleasant

vision of the soul and body of Charles Martel, burning,

to all eternity, in the abyss of hell.1

Elevation The loss of an army, or a province, in the west-

of the Ah- em W0rld, was less painful to the court of Da-

bas3ides, t i • i

A.D. 746 mascus, than the rise and progress of a domestic

competitor. Except among the Syrians, the

caliphs of the house of Ommiyah had never been the

objects of the public favour. The life of Mahomet re­

corded their perseverance in idolatry and rebellion; their

conversion had been reluctant, their elevation irregular

and factious, and their throne was cemented with the

most holy and noble blood of Arabia. The best of their

k Narbonne, and the rest of Septimania, was recovered by Pepin, the son of

Charles Martel, A. D. 755. (Pagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 300.) Thirty-seven
years af­

terward it was pillaged by a audden inroad of the Arabs, who employed the
captives

in the construction of the mosch of Cordova. (De Guignes, Hist, des Huns,
torn. 1.

p. 354.)

1 This pastoral letter, addressed to Lewis the Germanic, the grandson of
Charle­

magne, and most probably composed by the pen of the artful Hincmar, is dated
in

the year 858, and signed by the bishops of the provinces of Rheims and Rouen.

(Baronius, Annul. Eccles. A.D. 741. Fleury, Hist. Eccles.torn. 10. p.
514—516.)

Yet Baronius himself, and the French critics, reject with contempt this
episcopal

fiction.

