324 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Not a month, not an hour.—Excuse us at least from the

obligation of prayer.— Without prayer religion is of no

avail. They submitted in silence; their temples^ were

demolished, and the same sentence of destruction was

executed on all the idols of Arabia. His lieutenants, on

the shores of the Red sea, the ocean, and the gulf of

Persia, were saluted by the acclamations of a faithful

people; and the ambassadors who knelt before the throne

of Medina, were as numerous (says the Arabian proverb)

as the dates that fall from the maturity of a palm-tree.

The nation submitted to the God and the sceptre of Ma­

homet: the opprobrious name of tribute was abolished,

the spontaneous or reluctant oblations of alms and tithes

were applied to the service of religion; and one hundred

and fourteen thousand Moslems accompanied the last

pilgrimage of the apostle/

When Heraclius returned in triumph from the

Firstwar —. . . _ r

of the Ma-Persian war, he entertained, at Emesa, one of

e ambassadors of Mahomet, who invited the

princes and nations of the earth to the profession

A. D. 6«9, of Islam. On this foundation the zeal of the

630

Arabians has supposed the secret conversion of

the Christian emperor: the vanity of the Greeks has

feigned a personal visit to the prince of Medina, who ac­

cepted from the royal bounty a rich domain, and a secure

retreat in the province of Syria.*5 But the friendship of

Heraclius and Mahomet was of short continuance: the

new religion had inflamed rather than assuaged the ra­

pacious spirit of the Saracens; and the murder of an

envoy afforded a decent pretence for invading, with

three thousand soldiers, the territory of Palestine, that

extends to the eastward of the Jordan. The holy banner

was intrusted to Zeid; and such was the discipline or

'The last conquest and pilgrimage of Mahomet are contained in Abulfeda,

(p. 121—133.; Gagnier, (torn. 3. p. 1j9—219.) Elmacin, (p. 10.11.) Abulphara-

gius. (p. 103.) The ninth of the Hegira was styled the Year of Embassies. (Ga­

gnier, Not. ad Abulfed. (p. 121.)

* Compare the bigotted Al Jannabi (apud Gagnier, torn. 1. p. 232—255.) with  
the no less bigoted Greeks, Theophanes, (p. 276—278.) Zonarac, (torn. t. lib.
14.

p. 86.) and Cedrenus. (p. 421.)

