CHAP. LII. 495

and prosperity: they sought riches in the occupations of

industry, fame in the pursuits of literature, and happiness

in the tranquillity of domestic life. War was no longer

the passion of the Saracens; and the increase of pay, the

repetition of donatives, were insufficient to allure the

posterity of those voluntary champions who had crowded

to the standard of Abubeker and Omar for the hopes of

spoil and of paradise.

introduc- Under the reign of the Ommiades, the studies

tionof of the Moslems were confined to the interpreta-

among thetion of the Koran, and the eloquence and poetry

A. D*.8113' of their native tongue. A people continually ex-

sis' &c Posed to the dangers of the field must esteem the

healing powers of medicine, or rather of surgery;

but the starving physicians of Arabia murmured a com­

plaint, that exercise and temperance deprived them of

the greatest part of their practice.* After their civil and

domestic wars, the subjects of the Abbassides, awakening

from this mental lethargy, found leisure, and felt cu­

riosity, for the acquisition of profane science. This

spirit was first encouraged by the caliph Almansor, who,

besides his knowledge of the Mahometan law, had ap­

plied himself with success to the study of astronomy.

But when the sceptre devolved to Almamon, the seventh

of the Abbassides, he completed the designs of his grand­

father, and invited the Muses from their ancient seats.

His ambassadors at Constantinople, his agents in Arme­

nia, Syria, and Egypt, collected the volumes of Grecian

science: at his command they were translated by the most

skilful interpreters into the Arabic language; his subjects

were exhorted assiduously to peruse these instructive

writings; and the success of Mahomet assisted with

pleasure and modesty at the assemblies and disputations

of the learned. He was not ignorant (says Abulpha-

1 'I lie Gulislan (p. 289.) relates the conversation of Mahomet and a
physician.

(Epistol. Renaudot. in Fabricius, Bibliot. Grec. torn. 1. p. 815.) The prophet
him­

self was skilled in the art of medicine ; and Gagnier (Vie de. Mahomet, torn.
3. p.

394—105.) has given an extract of the aphorisms which are extant under his
name.

