CHAP. LI. 425

of the Greeks and Arabs, the Copts alone were found, on

the assessment, six millions of tributary subjects/ or

twenty millions of either sex, and of every age: that

three hundred millions of gold or silver were annually

paid to the treasury of the caliph.' Our reason must be

startled by these extravagant assertions; and they will

become more palpable, if we assume the compass and

measure the extent of habitable ground; a valley from

the tropic to Memphis, seldom broader than twelve miles,

and the triangle of the Delta, a flat surface of two thou­

sand one hundred square leagues, compose a twelfth part of

the magnitude of France.' A more accurate research will

justify a more reasonable estimate. The three hundred

millions, created by the error of a scribe, are reduced to

the decent revenue of four millions three hundred thou­

sand pieces of gold, ofwhich nine hundred thousand were

consumed by the pay of the soldiers." Two authentic

lists, of the present and of the twelfth century, are cir­

cumscribed within the respectable number of two thou­

etmmm opinion; and adds, that the generality of these villages contain two or

three thousand persons, and that many of them are more populous than our large

cities-

'Eutych. Annal. torn. 2. p. 308. 311. The twenty millions are computed from

the following data: one-twelfth of mankind above sixty, one-third below
sixteen,

the proportion of men to women as seventeen to sixteen. (Recherches sur la Po­

pulation de la France, p. 71, 72.) The president Goguet (Origin des Arts, &c.

torn. 3. p. 26, &c.) bestows twenty-seven millions on ancient Egypt, because
the

seventeen hundred companions of Sesostris were bom on the same day.

• Elmacin, Hist . Saracen, p. 218. and this gross lump is swallowed without

scrupli- by d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient, p. 1031.) Arbuthnot, (Tables of
Ancient

Coins, p. 262.) and de Guignes. (Hist, des Huns, torn. 3. p. 135.) They might

allege the not less extravagant liberality of Appian in favour of the
Ptolemies (in

prfef.) of seventy-four myriads, seven hundred and forty thousand talents, an
an­

nual income of a hundred and eighty-five, or near three hundred, millions of
pounds

sterling, according as we reckon by the Egyptian or the Alexandrian talent.
(Ber­

nard de Ponderibus Antiq. p. 186.)

1 See the measurement of d'Anville. (Mern. sur 1'Egypte, p. 23, &c.) After
some

peevish cavils, M. Pauw (Recherches sur les Egyptians, torn. 1. p. 118—121.)
can

only enlarge his reckoning to two thousand two hundred and fifty square
leagues.

"Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alexand. p. 334. who calls the common reading or

version of Elmacin, error librarii. His own emendation of four million three
hun­

dred thousand pieces, in the ninth century, maintains a probable medium
between

the three millions which the Arabs acquired by the conquest of Egypt, (idem,

p. 168.) and the two million four hundred thousand which the sultan of
Constan­

tinople levied in the last century. (Pietro della Valle, torn. 1. p. 352.
Thevenot,

part 1. p. 824.) Pauw (Recherches, torn. 2. p. 365—373.) gradually raises the

revenue of the Pharaohs, the Ptolemies, and the Ctesars, from six to fifteen
mil­

lions of German crowns.

