CHAP. LI. 381

Battle of About four years after the triumphs of the Per-

1*15*633 s^an war' tne repose of Heraclius and the empire

July is. was again disturbed by a new enemy, the power

of whose religion was more strongly felt than it was

clearly understood by the Christians of the east. In his

palace of Constantinople or Antioch, he was awakened

by the invasion of Syria, the loss of Bosra, and the dan­

ger of Damascus. An army of seventy thousand vete­

rans, or new levies, was assembled at Hems or Emesa,

under the command of his general Werdan;' and these

troops, consisting chiefly of cavalry, might be indiffer­

ently styled either Syrians, or Greeks, or Romans: Syrians,

from the place of their birth or warfare; Greeks, from

the religion and language of their sovereign; and Ro­

mans, from the proud appellation which was still pro­

faned by the successors of Constantine. On the plain

of Aiznadin as Werdan rode on a white mule decorated

with gold chains, and surrounded with ensigns and stan­

dards he was surprised by the near approach of a fierce

and naked warrior, who had undertaken to view the state

of the enemy. The adventurous valour of Derar was in­

spired, and has perhaps been adorned, by the enthusiasm

of his age and country. The hatred of the Christians,

the love of spoil, and the contempt of danger, were the

ruling passion of the audacious Saracen; and the pros­

pect of instant death could never shake his religious con­

fidence, or ruffle the calmness of his resolution, or even

suspend the frank and martial pleasantry of his humour.

In the most hopeless enterprises, he was bold, and pru­

dent, and fortunate: after innumerable hazards, after

being thrice a prisoner in the hands of the infidels, he

still survived to relate the achievements, and to enjoy

the rewards, of the Syrian conquest. On this occasion,

'The name of Werdan is unknown to Theophanes, and, though it might belong

to an Armenian chief, has very little of a Greek aspect or sound. If the
Byzantine

historians have mangled the oriental names, the Arabs, in this instance,
likewise

have taken ample revenge on their enemies. In transposing the Greek character

from right to left, might they not produce, from the familiar appellation of
Andrew,

•omething like the anagram Wtrdan 1

