CHAP. XLIX. 203

zeal of his Transalpine allies, enforced his complaint

and request by an eloquent letter in the name and per­

son of St. Peter himself/ The apostle assures his

adoptive sons, the king, the clergy, and the nobles of

France, that dead in the flesh, he is still alive in the

spirit; that they now hear, and must obey, the voice of

the founder and guardian of the Roman church; that

the Virgin, the angels, the saints, and the martyrs, and

all the host of heaven, unanimously urge the request,

and will confess the obligation; that riches, victory,

and paradise, will crown their pious enterprise, and

that eternal damnation will be the penalty of their neg­

lect, if they suffer his tomb, his temple, and his people,

to fall into the hands of the perfidious Lombards. The

second expedition of Pepin was not less rapid and for­

tunate than the first: St. Peter was satisfied, Rome was

again saved, and Astolphus was taught the lessons of

justice and sincerity by the scourge of a foreign mas­

ter. After this double chastisement, the Lombards

languished about twenty years in a state of languor and

decay. But their minds were not yet humbled to their

condition; and instead of affecting the pacific virtues

of the feeble, they peevishly harassed the Romans with

a repetition of claims, evasions, and inroads, which

they undertook without reflection and terminated with­

out glory. On either side, their expiring monarchy was

pressed by the zeal and prudence of Pope Adrian I.

the genius, the fortune, and greatness, of Charle­

magne the son of Pepin; these heroes of the church

and state were united in public and domestic friend­

ship, and while they trampled on the prostrate, they

varnished their proceedings with the fairest colours of

equity and moderation.8 The passes of the Alps, and

'See this most extraordinary letter in the Codex Carolines, epist. 3. p. 92.

The enemies of the popes hare charged them with fraud and blasphemy; yet tkey

snrely meant to persuade rather than deceive. This introduction of the dead,
or

of immortals, was familiar to the ancient orators, though it is executed on
thi-

occasion in the rude fashion of the age.

f Except in the divorce of the daughter of Desiderius, whom Charlemagne re­

