176 ROMAN EMPIRE.

to the substance of Christ's body," I have purposely

abandoned to the curiosity of speculative divines.

But I have reviewed, with diligence and pleasure,

the objects of ecclesiastical history, by which the de­

cline and fall of the Roman empire were materially

affected, the propagation of Christianity, the constitu­

tion of the Catholic church, the ruin of Paganism,

and the sects that arose from the mysterious contro­

versies concerning the Trinity and incarnation. At

the head of this class, we may justly rank the wor­

ship of images, so fiercely disputed in the eighth and

ninth centuries; since a question of popular supersti­

tion produced the revolt of Italy, the temporal power

of the popes, and the restoration of the Roman empire

in the west.

The primitive Christians were possessed with an un­

conquerable repugnance to the use and abuse of images,

and this aversion may be ascribed to their descent from

the Jews, and their enmity to the Greeks. The Mosaic

law had severely proscribed all representations of the

Deity; and that precept was firmly established, in the

principles and practice of the chosen people. The wit

of the Christian apologists was pointed against the foolish

idolaters, who bowed before the workmanship of their

own hands; the images of brass and marble, which had

they been endowed with sense and motion, should have

started rather from the pedestal to adore the creative

powers of the artist.b Perhaps some recent and imper­

fect converts of the Gnostic tribe, might crown the

statues of Christ and St. Paul with the profane honours

which they paid to those of Aristotle and Pythagoras ;c

» The learned Sold™ has given the history of transubstantiation in a compre­

hensive and pithy sentence.—" This opinion is only rhetoric turned into
logic."

(His Works, vol. 3. p. S073. in his Table talk.)

b Nee intelligunt homines ineptissimi, qudd si sentire simulacra et moveri
po»-

sent, adoraturahominemfmssent a quo sunt expolita. (Divin. Institut. lib. t.
c. -'.)

Lactantius is the last, as well as the most eloquent, of the Latin apologists.
Their

raillery of idols attacks not only the object, but the form and matter.

c See Irenaeus, Epiphanius, and Augustin. (Basnage, Hist , des F.glisrs Refor-

mees, torn. 2. p. 1313.) This Gnostic practice has a singular affinity with
the

