CHAP. L. 335

bed, in the embraces of his Egyptian captive: she pro­

mised secrecy and forgiveness: he swore that he would

renounce the possession of Mary. Both parties forgot

their engagements, and Gabriel again descended with a

chapter of the Koran, to absolve him from his oath, and

to exhort him freely to enjoy his captives and concu­

bines, without listening to the clamours of his wives.

In a solitary retreat of thirty days, he laboured, alone

with Mary, to fulfil the commands of the angel. When

his love and revenge were satiated, he summoned to his

presence his eleven wives, reproached their disobedience

and indiscretion, and threatened them with a sentence

of divorce, both in this world and the next: a dreadful

sentence, since those who had ascended the bed of the

prophet were for ever excluded from the hope of a second

marriage. Perhaps the incontinence of Mahomet may

be palliated by the tradition of his natural or preterna­

tural gift;" he united the manly virtue of thirty of the

children of Adam; and the apostle might rival the thir­

teenth labour'1 of the Grecian Hercules.0 A more serious

and decent excuse may be drawn from his fidelity to

Cadijah. During the twenty-four years of their mar­

riage, her youthful husband abstained from the right of

polygamy, and the pride or tenderness of the venerable

matron was never insulted by the society of a rival. Af­

ter her death he placed her in the rank of the four per­

fect women, with the sister of Moses, the mother of

i Sibi robur ad generationem, quantum triginta virihavent, iness* jactaret:
ita

ut unitfi hoift posset nmlivi in fceminis tatisfacerc, nt ex Arabura libris
refert Sins

Petrus Paschasius, c.'.?. (Maracci, Prodromus Alcoran, p. 4. p. 55.) See
likewise

observations de Belon, lib. 3. c. 10. fol. 179. recto.) Al Jannabi (Gagnier,
torn. 3.

p. 487.) records Ms own testimony, that he surpassed all men in conjugal
vigour;

and Abulfeda mentions the exclamation of Ali, who washed his body after his

death,—" O propheta, certe penis suns ccelum versus ereetus est." (in Yit. Mo­

hammed, p. 140.)

li I borrow the style of a father of the church, Ka9Xeuay 'HpaxXou;
TfMrxaiJixarW

•dXcv. (Greg. Nazianzen, orat . 3. p. 108.)

• The common and most glorious legend includes, in a single night, the fifty

victories of Hercules over the virgin daughters ofThestius. (Diodor.Sicul.
torn. 1.

Kb. 4. p, 474. Pausauias, lib. 9. p. 763. Statius Sylv. lib. 1. elcg. 3. v.
42.) But

Athensuo allows seven nights, (Diepuosophist. lib. 13. p. 556.) and
Apollodorus

fifty, for this arduous achievement of Hercules, who was then no more than
eigh­

teen years of age. (Bibliot. lib. 2. c.4. p. 111. cum notis Hevne, part 1. p.
3S2.)

