458 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the eyes of an inquisitive Polytheist,it must appear wor­

thy of the human and the divine nature. More pure

than the system of Zoroaster, more liberal than the law

of Moses, the religion of Mahomet might seem less in­

consistent with reason, than the creed of mystery and

superstition, which, in the seventh century, disgraced

the simplicity of the gospel.

Fail of the 1° ^e extensive provinces of Persia and

Magians Africa, the national religion has been eradicated

by the Mahometan faith. The ambiguous theo­

logy of the Magi stood alone among the sects of the east:

but the profane writings of Zoroaster0 might, under the

reverend name of Abraham, be dexterously connected

with the chain of divine revelation. Their evil prin­

ciple, the demon Ahriman, might be represented as the

rival or as the creature of the God of light. The tem­

ples of Persia were devoid of images; but the worship

of the sun and of fire might be stigmatized as a gross

and criminal idolatry.11 The milder sentiment was con­

secrated by the practice of Mahomef and the prudence

of the caliphs; the Magians or Ghebers were ranked

with the Jews and Christians among the people of the

written law;r and as late as the third century of the He-

gira, the city of Herat will afford a lively contrast of pri­

0 Ilif Zend or Pazend, the bible of the Ghebers, is reckoned by themselves, or

at h'»st by the Mahometans, among the ten books which Abraham received from

heaven; and their religion is honourably styled the religion of Abraharn.
(D'Her-

belot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 701. Hyde, de Religione veterum Persarnm, c. 3. p.
17,

38, &c.) I much fear that we do not possess any pure and/ree description of
the

system of Zoroaster. Dr. Prideaux (Connexion, vol. 1. p. 300. octavo) adopts
1he

opinion, that he had been the slave and scholar of some Jewish prophet in the

captivity of Babylon. Perhaps the Persians, who have been the masters of the

Jews, would assert the honour, a poor honour, of being tln'ir masters.

f The Arabian Nights, a faithful and amusing picture of the oriental world,

represent in the most odious colours, the Magians, or worshippers of fire, to
whom

they attribute the annual sacrifice of a Mussulman. The religion of Zoroaster

has not the least affinity with that of the Hindoos, yet they are often
confounded

by the Mahometans; and the sword of Timonr was sharpened by this mistake.

(Hist, de Timour Bee, par Cherefeddin Al i Yezdi, lib. 5.)

i Vie de Mahomet, par Gagnier, torn. 5. p. 114,115.

'Hsc tres sects, Jurtsi, Christiani, et qui inter Persas Magoruminstitntisad-

dicti sunt, HUT' tjojc1"' fp«.\i liberi dicuntur. (Reland, Dissertat. torn. 3.
p. 15.) Tbe

caliph Al Mamun confirms this honourable distinction in favour of the three
sects, •

with the vague and equivocal religion of the Sabsans, under which the ancient

Polytheisls of Charre were allowed to shelter theii idolatrous worship.
(HottingCT.

Hist. Orient, p. 167, 168.)

