398 ROMAN EMPIRE.

share was allotted to a soldier and to his horse; and a

double portion was reserved for the noble coursers of

the Arabian breed.

Conquest After the battle of Yermuk, the Roman army

of Jem- no longer appeared in the field: and'the Saracens

salem, .,1' i c. •/.

A. D. 637. might securely choose among the tortmed towns

of Syria, the first object of their attack. They consulted

the caliph whether they should march to Ceesarea or

Jerusalem; and the advice of Al i determined the imme­

diate siege of the latter. To a profane eye, Jerusalem

was the first or second capital of Palestine; but after Mec­

ca and Medina, it was revered and visited by the devout

Moslems, as the temple of the Holy Land, which had

been sanctified by the revelation of Moses, of Jesus, and

of Mahomet himself. The son of Abu Sophian was sent

with five thousand Arabs to try the first experiment of

surprise or treaty ; but on the eleventh day, the town was

invested by the whole force of Abu Obeidah. He ad­

dressed the customary summons to the chief comman­

ders and people of JElia? Health and happiness to

every one that follows the right way! We require of you

to testify that there is but one God, and that Mahomet is

his apostle. If you refuse this, consent to pay tribute,

and be under us forthwith. Otherwise I shall bring

men against you who love death better than you do the

drinking of wine or eating hog's jlesh. Nor will I ever

stir from you, if it please God, till I have destroyed those

that fight for you, and made slaves of your children. But

the city was defended on every side by deep valleys

and steep ascents; since the invasion of Syria, the walls

and towers had been anxiously restored; the bravest of

the fugitives of Yermuk had stopped in the nearest place

of refuge; and in the defence of the sepulchre of Christ,

k In the name of the city, the profane prevailed over the sacred; Jerusalem
was

known to the devout Christians; (Eusch. de Martyr. Palest, c. 9.) but the
legal

and popular appellation of /£im (the colony of ,!•'.!: i'- Hadrianus) has
passed from

the Romans to the Arabs. (Reland, Palestin. torn. 1. p. 207. torn. 2. p. 836.
D'Her-

belot, Bibliothenue Orientale, Codi, p «69. Ilia, p. 420.) The epithet of Al
Cadi,

the Holy, is used as the proper name of Jerusalern.

