CHAP. XLVIII. 127

elation till his influence was fortified by popular esteem.

His life was endangered by the caprice of the emperor;

and his dignity was profaned by a second colleague, who

had rowed in the galleys. Yet the murder of his benefac­

tor must be condemned as an act of ingratitude and trea­

son; and the churches which he dedicated to the name of

St. Michael, were a poor and puerile expiation of his guilt.

The different ages of Basil I. may be compared with

those of Augustus. The situation of the Greek did not

allow him in his earliest youth to lead an army against

his country, or to proscribe the noblest of her sons; but

his aspiring genius stooped to the arts of a slave; he

dissembled his ambition and even his virtues,and grasped,

with the bloody hand of an assassin, the empire which

he ruled with the wisdom and tenderness of a parent.

A private citizen may feel his interest repugnant to his

duty; but it must be from a deficiency of sense or cou­

rage, that an absolute monarch can separate his happi­

ness from his glory, or his glory from the public welfare.

The life or panegyric of Basil has indeed been composed

and published under the long reign of his descendants;

but even their stability on the throne may be justly as­

cribed to the superior merit of their ancestor. In his

character, his grandson Constantine has attempted to

delineate a perfect image of royalty; but that feeble

prince, unless he had copied a real model could not

easily have soared so high above the level of his own

conduct or conceptions. But the most solid praise of

Basil is drawn from the comparison of a ruined and a

flourishing, monarchy, that which he wrested from the

dissolute Michael, and that which he bequeathed to the

Macedonian dynasty. The evils which had been sanc­

tified by time and example, were corrected by his master-

hand; and he revived, if not the national spirit, at least

the order and majesty of the Roman empire. His appli­

cation was indefatigable, his temper cool, his understand­

ing vigorous and decisive; and in his practice he ob­

