352 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Success of The talents of Mahomet are entitled to our ap-

Mahomet. plause, but his success has perhaps1 too strongly

attracted our admiration. Are we surprised that a mul­

titude of proselytes should embrace the doctrine and the

passions of an eloquent fanatic? In the heresies of the

church, the same seduction has been tried and repeated

from the time of the apostles to that of the reformers.

Does it seem incredible that a private citizen should grasp

the sword and the sceptre, subdue his native country,

and erect a monarchy by his victorious arms? In the

moving picture of the dynasties of the east, a hundred

fortunate usurpers have arisen from a baser origin, sur­

mounted more formidable obstacles, and filled a larger

scope of empire and conquest. Mahomet was alike in­

structed to preach and to fight, and the union of these

opposite qualities, while it enhanced his merit, contri­

buted to his success: the operation of force and persua­

sion, of enthusiasm and fear, continually acted on

each other, till every barrier yielded to their irresistible

power. His voice invited the Arabs to freedom and

victory, to arms and rapine, to the indulgence of their

darling passions in this world and the other; the re­

straints which he imposed were requisite to establish

the credit of the prophet, and to exercise the obedi­

ence of the people; and the only objection to his suc­

cess, was his rational creed of the unity and perfec-

Perma ^OnS o^ ^OC^' ^ *S nOt ^ ProPagation ^ut ^e

nencyof permanency of his religion that deserves our

gion?' wonder: the same pure and perfect impression

which he engraved at Mecca and Medina, is preserved,

after the revolutions of twelve centuries, by the Indian,

the African, and the Turkish proselytes of the Koran. If

the Christian apostles, St. Peter or St. Paul, could re­

turn to the Vatican, they might possibly inquire the

name of the deity who is worshipped with such myste­

acribed by Demetrius Cantemir (Hist, of the Othman Empire, p. 94.) and
Niebuhr.

(Description de 1'Arabie, p. 9-16. 317, &c.) It » much to be lamented, that
the.

Danish traveller was unable to purchase the chronicles of Arabia.

