CHAP. XLIX. 235

mom equal and familiar appellation of brother.* Per­

haps in his connexion with Irene he aspired to the name

of husband; his embassy to Constantinople spoke the

language of peace and friendship, and might conceal a

treaty of marriage with that ambitious princess, who had

renounced the most sacred duties of a mother. The na­

ture, the duration, the probable consequences, of such a

union between two distant and dissonant empires, it is

impossible to conjecture: but the unanimous silence of

the Latins may teach us to suspect, that the report was

invented by the enemies of Irene, to charge her with the

guilt of betraying the church and state to the strangers

of the west/ The French ambassadors were the spec­

tators, and had nearly been the victims, of the conspiracy

of Nicephorus, and the national hatred. Constantino­

ple was exasperated by the treason and sacrilege of

ancient Rome: a proverb, That the Franks were good

friends and bad neighbours, was in every one's mouth;

but it was dangerous to provoke a neighbour who might

be tempted to reiterate, in the church of St. Sophia,

the ceremony of his imperial coronation. After a tedi­

ous journey of circuit and delay, the ambassadors of

Nicephorus found him in his camp, on the banks of the

river Sala; and Charlemagne affected to confound their

vanity by displaying, in a Franconian village, the pomp,

or at least the pride, of the Byzantine palace.8 The

Greeks were successively led through four halls of

audience: in the first, they were ready to fall prostrate

before a splendid personage in a chair of state, till he

• Inviduim tamen suscepti nominis. (C. F. imperatoribus super hoc uulignanli-

Iras magni, tulit patient ift, vicitque eorum contumaciarn...mittendo ad eos
crebras le-

gationes, et in fipistolisfortreseo» appellando; Eginbard, c. 28. p. 128.)
Perhapeit

was on their account that, like Augustus, he affected some reluctance to
receive

''l In uphancs spcakH of the coronation and auction of Charles, KopouXXo;,
(Chro­

nograph, p. 399.) and of his treaty of marriage with Irene, (p. 402.) which is
un­

known to the Latins. Gaillard relates his transactions with the Greek empire,

(torn. 2. p. 446—468.)

( Giiillard very properly observes, that this pageant was a farce suitable to

children only; but that it was indeed represented in the presence, and for (he
be­

nefit, of children of a larger growth.

