CHAP. L. 275

art and power of the monarchs of the east have been

confined to the simplicity of the original model.3 A

spacious portico encloses the quadrangle of the Caaba;

a square chapel, twenty-four cubits long, twenty-three

broad, and twenty-seven high; a door and a window

admit the light; the double roof is supported by three

pillars of wood; a spout (now of gold) discharges the

rain-water, and the well Zanzem is protected by a dome

from accidental pollution. The tribe of Koreish, by

fraud or force, had acquired the custody of the Caaba;

the sacerdotal office devolved through four lineal de­

scents to the grandfather of Mahomet; and the family

of the Hashemites, from whence he sprung, was the

most respectable and sacred in the eyes of their coun­

try.1* The precincts of Mecca enjoyed the rights of

sanctuary; and, in the last month of each year, the city

and the temple were crowded with a long train of pil­

grims, who presented their vows and offerings in the

house of God. The same rites, which are now accom­

plished by the faithful Mussulman, were invented and

practised by the superstition of the idolaters. At an

awful distance they cast away their garments: seven

times, with hasty steps, they encircled the Caaba, and

kissed the black stone: seven times they visited and

adored the adjacent mountains; seven times they threw

stones into the valley of Mina; and the pilgrimage was

achieved, as at the present hour, by a sacrifice of sheep

and camels, and the burial of their hair and nails in the

consecrated ground. Each tribe either found or intro­

duced in the Caaba their domestic worship: the temple

was adorned, or defiled, with three hundred and sixty

* The original plan of the Caaba (which is servilely copied in Sale, the Univer­  
sal History, &c.) was a Turkish draught, which Beland (de Religions Moham-

nn ilic.'L, p. 113—123.) has corrected and explained from the best
authorities. For

the description and legend of the Caaba, consult Pocock, (Specimen, p.
115—122.)

'the Bibliotheque Orientale of d'Herbelot, (Cooto, Ilagir, Zansem, &C.) and
Sale.

(Preliminary Discourse, p. 114—122.)

• '• Cosa, the fifth ancestor of Mahomet, must have usurped the Caaba A. D.
440.

but the story is differently told by Jannebi, (Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn.
1.

p. 65-—69.) and by Abulfeda. (in Vit , Moharn. c. 6. p. 13.)

T2

