CHAP. LI. 461

were overturned by the hostile fury of the Donatists, the

Vandals, and the Moors. The zeal and numbers of the

clergy declined; and the people, without discipline, or

knowledge, or hope, submissively sunk under the yoke

of the Arabian prophet. Within fifty years after

'the expulsion of the Greeks, a lieutenant of Africa

informed the caliph that the tribute of the infidels was

abolished by their conversion,' and, though he sought to

disguise his fraud and rebellion, his specious pretence

was drawn from the rapid and extensive progress of the

Mahometan faith. In the next age, an extraor-

'dinary mission of five bishops was detached from

Alexandria to Cairoan. They were ordained by the Ja­

cobite patriarch to cherish and revive the dying embers

of Christianity:8 but the interposition of a foreign prelate,

a stranger to the Latins, an enemy to the Catholics, sup­

poses the decay and dissolution of the African hierarchy.

It was no longer the time when the successor of St. Cy­

prian, at the head of a numerous synod, could maintain

an equal contest with the ambition of the Roman pontiff.

A.D.1053 'n the eleventh century, the unfortunate priest

—lore. wno was seated on the ruins of Carthage, im­

plored the arms and the protection of the Vatican; and

he bitterly complains that his naked body had been

scourged by the Saracens, and that his authority was

disputed by the four suffragans, the tottering pillars of

his throne. Two epistles of Gregory VII.b are destined

to soothe the distress of the Catholics and the pride of

a Moorish prince. The pope assures the sultan that they

both worship the same God, and may hope to meet in

the bosom of Abraham; but the complaint, that three

bishops could no longer be found to consecrate a brother,

* The letter of Abdoulrahman, governor or tyrant of Africa, to the caliph Aboul  
Abbas, the first of the Abbassides, is dated A.H. 132. (Cardonne, Hist, de
I'Afrique

et de I'Espagne, torn. 1. p. 168.)

• Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 66. Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 287, 288.

b Among the Epistles of the Popes, see Leo IX. epist. 3. Gregor. VII. lib.
epist.

22, 23. lib. 3. epist. 19—21. and the criticisms of Pagi, (torn. 4. A. D.
1053.

no. 1S.) who investigates the name and family of the Moorish prince, with whom

the proudest of the Roman pontiffs so politely corresponds.

