286 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Eitent of some of the fairest kingdoms of Europe were the

patrimony or conquest of a prince, who reign-

ed at the same time in France, Spain, Italy,

Germany, and Hungary.0 I. The Roman province of

Gaul had been transformed into the name and monar­

chy of FRANCE; but, in the decay of the Merovingian

line, its limits were contracted by the independence of

the Britains and the revolt of Aquitain. Charlemagne

pursued, and confined, the Britons on the shores of the

ocean; and that ferocious tribe, whose origin and lan­

guage are so different from the French, was chastised

by the imposition of tribute, hostages, and peace. Af­

ter a long and evasive conquest, the rebellion of the

dukes of Aquitain was punished by the forfeiture of

their province, their liberty, and their lives. Harsh

and rigorous would have been such treatment of ambi­

tious governors, who had too faithfully copied the

mayors of the palace. But a recent discoveryp has

proved that these unhappy princes were the last and

lawful heirs of the blood and sceptre of Clovis, a

younger branch, from the brother of Dagobert, of the

Merovingian house. Their ancient kingdom was re­

duced to the dutchy of Gascogne, to the counties of

Fesenzac and Armagnac, at the foot of the Pyrenees:

their race was propagated till the beginning of the six­

teenth century; and, after surviving their Carlovingian

tyrants, they were reserved to feel the injustice, or the

favours, of a third dynasty. By the reunion of Aqui­

tain, France was enlarged to its present boundaries,

for Italy, de Marca (Marca Hfepanica) for Spain. For the middle geography of

Germany, I confess myself poor and destitute.

0 After a brief relation of his wars and conqueste, (Vit. Carol, c. 5—14.)

Eginhard recapitulates, in a few words, (c. 15.) the countries subject to his
em­

pire. Strurius (Corpus Hist. German, p. 118—149.) has inserted in his Notes

the texts of the old Chronicles.

P Of a charter granted to the monastery of Alaon (A. D. 845.) by Chartes

the Bald, which deduces this royal pedigree. I doubt whether some subsequent

links of the ninth and tenth centuries are equally firm; yet the whole is
approved

and defended by M. Gaillard, (torn. t. p. tiO—1)1. 90S—206.) who affirms that

the family of Montesquieu (not of the president de Montesquieu) is descended
in

i lir female line from Clotaire and Clovis—an innocent pretension!

