CHAP. LI. 455

of their eastern progenitors. The victorious though

motley bands of Tarik and Musa asserted, by the name

of Spaniards, their original claim of conquest; yet they

allowed their brethren of Egypt to share their esta­

blishments of Murcia and Lisbon. The royal legion of

Damascus was planted at Cordova; that of Emesa at

Seville; that of Kinnisrin or Chalcis atJaen; that of

Palestine at Algezire and Medina Sidonia. The natives

of Yemen and Persia were scattered around Toledo and

the inland country; and the fertile seats of Grenada

were bestowed on ten thousand horsemen of Syria and

Irak, the children of the purest and most noble of the

Arabian tribes/ A spirit of emulation, sometimes bene­

ficial, more frequently dangerous, was nourished by

these hereditary factions. Ten years after the conquest,

a map of the province was presented to the caliph: the

seas, the rivers, and the harbours, the inhabitants and

cities, the climate, the soil, and the mineral productions

of the earth." In the space of two centuries, the gifts of

nature were improved by the agriculture,'1 the manufac­

tures, and the commerce of an industrious people; and

the effects of their diligence have been magnified by the

idleness of their fancy. The first of the Ommiades who

reigned in Spain solicited the support of the Christians;

and, in his edict of peace and protection, he contents

himself with a modest imposition of ten thousand ounces

of gold, ten thouand pounds of silver, ten thousand horses,

as many mules, one thousand cuirasses, with an equal

'Bibliot. Arab. Hispana, torn. 2. p. 32. 352. The farmer of these quotations
is

taken from a Biographia Hufanica, by an Arabian of Valentia: (see the copious
ex­

tracts of Casiri, torn. t. p. 30—H1.) and the latter from a general chronology
of

the Caliphs, and of the African and Spanish Dynasties, with a particular
History

of the Kingdom of Grenada, of which Casiri has given almost an entire version.

(Bibliot. Arabico-HUpana, torn. 2. p. 177—319.) The authorEbn Khateb, a na­

tive of Grenada, and a contemporary of Nnvairi and Abulfeda, (born A. D. 1313,

died A.D. 1374.) was an historian, geographer, physician, poet, Sec. (torn. 2.
p.

71, 72.)

* Cardonne, Hist . de I'Afrique et de 1'Espagne, torn. 4. p. 116,117.

* A copious treatise of Hushandry, by an Arabian of Seville, in the twelfth cen­  
tury, is in the Escurial library, and Casiri had some thoughts of translating
it. He

gives a list of the authors quoted, Arabs, as well as Greeks, Latins, &c.; but
it if

much if the Andalusian saw these strangers through the medium of his
countryman

Columella. (Casiri, Bibliot . Arabico-Hiepana, torn. 1. p. 323—356.)

