82 ROMAN EMPIRE.

was received and dismissed with honour; but when h«

accused the heresy and treason of the Egyptians, the

negro convert was instructed to reply that he would

never abandon his brethren, the true believers, to the per­

secuting ministers of the synod of Chalcedon.p During

several ages, the bishops of Nubia were named and

consecrated by the Jacobite patriarch of Alexandria: as

late as the twelfth century, Christianity prevailed; and

some rites, some ruins, are still visible in the savage

towns of Sennaar and Dongola.q But the Nubians at

length executed their threats of returning to the worship

of idols; the climate required the indulgence of poly­

gamy, and they have finally preferred the triumph of

the Koran to the abasement of the cross. A metaphy­

sical religion may appear too refined for the capacity

of the negro race: yet a black or a parrot might be

taught to repeat the wards of the Chalcedon or Mono-

physite creed.

Church of Christianity was more deeply rooted in the

jftTsso'Abyssinian empire; and, although the corre-

**• spondence has been sometimes interrupted above  
seventy or a hundred years, the mother-church of Alex­

andria retains her colony in a state of perpetual pupil­

age. Seven bishops once composed the./Ethiopic synod:

had their number amounted to ten, they might have

elected an independent primate; and one of their kings

was ambitious of promoting his brother to the eeclest-

astical throne. But the event was foreseen, the increase

was denied; the episcopal office has been gradually

confined to the abuna' the head and author of the Abys-

P Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 1. p. 329.

i The Christianity of the Nubians, A. D. 1153, it attested by the slicrif at
K.drisi,

falsely described under the name of the Nubian geographer, (p. 18.) who repre­

sents them as a nation of Jacobites. The rays of historical light that twinkle
in

the history of Renaudot, (p. 178. 220. 224. 281. 286. 405. 434.451. 464.) are
all

previous to this era. See the modern state in the Lettres Edificantes,
(Recueil 4.)

and Busching. (torn. 9. p. 152—159. par Berenger.)

'The abuna is improperly dignified by the Latins with the title of patriarch.

The Abyssinians acknowledge only the four patriarchs, and their chief is no
more

than a metropolitan, or national primate. (Ludolph. Hint. tEthiopic. et
Comment,

lib. 3. c. 7.) The seven bishops of Renaudot, (p. 511.) who existed A. D.
118!,

are unknown to the historian.

