CHAP. XLVII. 7

a rebellious, or at least an ignorant spirit. The Son of

God descended upon earth to abolish his temple and

his law; and, for the accomplishment of this salutary

end, he dexterously transferred to his own person the

hope and prediction of a temporal Messiah.

His incor- ^ne of tue most subtle disputants of the Ma-

mptibie nichaean school, has pressed the danger and in­

decency of supposing, that the God of the Chris­

tians, in the state of a human foetus, emerged at the end

of nine months from a female womb. The pious hor­

ror of his antagonists provoked them to disclaim all sen­

sual circumstances of conception and delivery; to main­

tain, that the divinity passed through Mary like a sun­

beam through a plate of glass, and to assert, that the

seal of her virginity remained unbroken even at the mo­

ment when she became the mother of Christ. But the

rashness of these concessions has encouraged a milder

sentiment of those of the Docetes, who taught, not that

Christ was a phantom, but that he was clothed with an

impassible and incorruptible body. Such, indeed, in

the more orthodox system he has acquired since his re­

surrection, and such he must have always possessed, if

it were capable of pervading, without resistance orinjury,

the density of intermediate matter. Devoid of its most

essential properties, it might be exempt from the attri­

butes and infirmities of the flesh. A foetus, that could

increase from an invisible point to its full maturity; a

child, that could attain the stature of perfect manhood,

without deriving any nourishment from the ordinary

sources, might continue to exist without repairing a daily

waste by a daily supply of external matter. Jesus might

share the repasts of his disciples without being subject

to the calls of thirst or hunger; and his virgin purity

was never sullied by the involuntary stains of sensual

concupiscence. Of a body thus singularly constituted,

a question would arise, by what means, and of what ma­

terials, it was originally framed; and our sounder theo­

logy is started by an answer which was not peculiar to

