344 ROMAN EMPIRE.

liph, and whose claim was supported by the forces of

Syria and the interest of the house of Ommiyah. From

the passage of Thapsacus, the plain of Siffin" extends

along the western banks of the Euphrates. On this

spacious and level theatre, the two competitors waged a

desultory war of one hundred and ten days. In the

course of ninety actions or skirmishes, the loss of AH

was estimated at twenty-five, that of Moawiyah at forty-

five, thousand soldiers; and the list of the slain was dig­

nified with the names of five-and-twenty veterans who

had fought at Beder under the standard of Mahomet. In

this sanguinary contest, the lawful caliph displayed a

superior character of valour and humanity. His troops

were strictly enjoined to await the first onset of the

enemy; to spare their flying brethren, and to respect

the bodies of the dead, and the chastity of the female

captives. He generously proposed to save the blood of

the Moslems by a single combat; but his trembling rival

declined the challenge as a sentence of inevitable death.

The ranks of the Syrians were broken by the charge of

a hero who was mounted on a piebald horse, and wielded

with irresistible force his ponderous and two-edged

sword. As often as he smote a rebel, he shouted the

Allah Acbar,—God is victorious; and in the tumult of

a nocturnal battle, he was heard to repeat four hundred

times that tremendous exclamation. The prince of Da­

mascus already meditated his flight, but the certain vic­

tory was snatched from the grasp of Ali by the disobe­

dience and enthusiasm of his troops. Their conscience

was awed by the solemn appeal to the books of the Koran

which Moawiyah exposed on the foremost lances; and

Ali was compelled to yield to a disgraceful truce and

an insidious compromise. He retreated with sorrow and

indignation to Cufa: his party was discouraged; the

distant provinces of Persia, of Yemen, and of Egypt,

determined by d'Anville (1'Euphrate et le Tigre, p. t9.)

Procopius.

