22 ROMAN EMPIRE.

errors and passions of a mortal; and his twelve11 anathe­

mas still torture the orthodox slaves, who adore the me­

mory of a saint, without forfeiting their allegiance to

the synod of Chalcedon. These bold assertions are in­

delibly tinged with the colours of the Apollinarian

heresy; but the serious, and perhaps the sincere, pro­

fessions of Nestorius, have satisfied the wiser and less

partial theologians of the present times/

Yet neither the emperor nor the primate of

the east were disposed to obey the mandate of

a" Italian priest; and a synod of the Catholic,

June— or rather of the Greek church, was unanimous-

October*

ly demanded, as the sole remedy that could

appease or decide this ecclesiastical quarrel.' Ephesus,

on all sides accessible by sea and land, was chosen for

the place, the festival of Pentecost for the day, of the

meeting; a writ of summons was dispatched to each

metropolitan, and a guard was stationed to protect and

confine the fathers till they should settle the mysteries

of Heaven, and the faith of the earth. Nestorius

appeared, not as a criminal, but as a judge; he depend­

ed rather on the weight than the number of his pre­

lates, and his sturdy slaves from the baths of Zeuxippus

were armed for every service of injury or defence. But

his adversary Cyril was more powerful in the weapons

both of the flesh and of the spirit. Disobedient to the

letter, or at least to the meaning, of the royal summons,

1 Concil. torn. 3. p. 943. They have never been directly approved by the
church.

(Tillemont, Mern. Eccles. torn. 14. p. 368—372.) I almost pity the agony of
rage

and sophistry. with which Pctavius seems to be agitated in the sixth book of
his

Dogmata Theologies.

'Such as the rational Basnage, (ad torn. 1. Variar. Lection. Canisii in
Pnrfat.

c. t. p. 11—23.) and La Croze, the universal scholar. (Christianisme dee
Indes,

torn. 1. p. 16—20. "De 1'Ethiope, p. 26, 27. Thesaur. Epist. p. 176, &c. 283.
285.)

His free sentence is confirmed by that of his friends Jablonski (Thesaur.
Epist.

torn. 1. p. 193—201.) and Mosheim, (idem, p. 304. Nestorium crimine caruisse

est et mea sententia); and three more respectable judges will not easily be
found.

Asseman, a learned and modest slave, can hardly discern (Bibliothec. Orient,

torn. 4. p. 190—224.) the guilt and error of the Nestorians.

•The origin and progress of the Nestorian controversy till the synod of
Ephesus,

may be found in Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 32.) Evagrius, (lib. 1.e. 1,2.)
Liberatus,

(Brev. c. 1—4.) the original Acts, (Condi, torn. 3. p. 551—991, edit. Veniac,

1728.) the Annuls of Baronius and Pagi, and the faithful collections of
Tillemont.

(Mern. Eccles. torn. 14. p. 283—377.)

