CHAP. LI. 407

death of Abu Obeidah might be lamented by the Chris­

tians; but his brethren recollected that he was one of the

ten elect, whom the prophet had named as the heirs of

paradise.7 Caled survived his brethren about three years;

and the tomb of the sword of God is shewn in the neigh­

bourhood of Emesa. His valour, which founded in Ara­

bia and Syria the empire of the caliphs, was fortified by

the opinion of a special providence; and as long as he

•wore a cap, which had been blessed by Mahomet, he

deemed himself invulnerable amidst the darts of the

infidels.

Progress The place of the first conquerors was supplied

rfsmcon* ty a new generation of their children and coun-

Tn0639 fry10611: Syria became the seat and support of

—ess. the house of Ommiyah; and the revenue, the

soldiers, the ships of that powerful kingdom, were conse­

crated to enlarge on every side the empire of the caliphs.

But the Saracens despise a superfluity of fame; and their

historians scarcely condescend to mention the subordi­

nate conquests which are lost in the splendour and rapi­

dity of their victorious career. To the north of Syria,

they passed mount Taurus, and reduced to their obedi­

ence the province of Cilicia, with its capital Tarsus, the

ancient monument of the Assyrian kings. Beyond a

second ridge of the same mountains, they spread the

flame of war, rather than the light of religion, as far as

the shores of the Euxine and the neighbourhood of Con­

stantinople. To the east they advanced to the banks

and sources of the Euphrates and Tigris :z the long dis­

puted barrier of Rome and Persia was for ever con­

T Abnlfeda, Annal. Moslem, p. 73. Mahomet could artfully vary the praises of

bis disciples. Of Omar he was accustomed to say, that if a prophet could arise

after himself, it would be Omar; and that in a general calamity, Omar would be

accepted by the divine justice. (Ockley, vol. 1. p. 221.)

* Al Wakidi had likewise written a history of the conquest of Diarbekir, or  
Mesopotamia, (Ockley, at the end of the second vol.) which our interpreters do

not appear to have seen. The chronicle of Dionysius of Telmar, the Jacobite

patriarch, records the taking of Edessa, A. D. 637, and of Dara, A. D. 641.
(As-

seman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 103.) and the attentive may glean some
doubtful

information from the Chronography of Theophanes. (p. 285—287.) Most of the

towns of Mesopotamia yielded by surrender. (Abulpharag. p.

