138 ROMAN EMPIRE.

emperor's brother, he was degraded from the office of

general of the east, to that of director of the posts, and

his murmurs were chastised with disgrace and exile.

But Zimisces was ranked among the numerous lovers

of the empress: on her intercession he was permitted to

reside at Chalcedon, in the neighbourhood of the capi足

tal: her bounty was repaid in his clandestine and

amorous visits to the palace; and Theophano consented

with alacrity to the death of an ugly and penurious

husband. Some bold and trusty conspirators were

concealed in her most private chambers; in the dark足

ness of a winter night, Zimisces, with his principal

companions, embarked in a small boat, traversed the

Bosphorus, landed at the palace stairs, and silently

ascended a ladder of ropes, which was cast down by the

female attendants. Neither his own suspicions, nor the

warnings of his friends, nor the tardy aid of his brother

Leo, nor the fortress which he had erected in the pa足

lace, could protect Nicephorus from a domestic foe, at

whose voice every door was opened to the assassins.

As he slept on a bear-skin on the ground, he was

roused by their noisy intrusion, and thirty daggers

glittered before his eyes. It is doubtful whether Zi足

misces imbrued his hands in the blood of his sovereign;

but he enjoyed the inhuman spectacle of revenge.

The murder was protracted by insult and cruelty; and

as soon as the head of Nicephorus was shewn from the

window, the tumult was hushed, and the Armenian

was emperor of the east. On the day of his coronation,

he was stopped on the threshold of St. Sophia, by the

intrepid patriarch; who charged his conscience with

the deed of treason and blood; and required, as a sign

of repentance, that he should separate himself from his

more criminal associate. This sally of apostolic zeal

was not offensive to the prince, since he could neither

love nor trust a woman who had repeatedly violated the

most sacred obligations; and Theophano, instead of

