CHAP. LI. 463

After the revolution of eleven centuries, the

Jgws and Christians of the Turkish empire enjoy

the liberty of conscience which was granted by

the Arabian caliphs. During the first age of the con­

quest, they suspected the loyalty of the Catholics, whose

name of Melchites betrayed their secret attachment to

the Greek emperor, while the Nestorians and Jacobites,

his inveterate enemies, approved themselves the sincere

and voluntary friends of the Mahometan government.*

Yet this partial jealousy was healed by time and submis­

sion; the churches of Egypt were shared with the Ca­

tholics,11 and all the oriental sects were included in the

common benefits of toleration. The rank, the immu­

nities, the domestic jurisdiction, of the patriarchs, the

bishops, and the clergy, were protected by the civil ma­

gistrate: the learning of individuals recommended them

to the employments of secretaries and physicians; they

were enriched by the lucrative collection of the revenue;

and their merit was sometimes raised to the command

of cities and provinces. A caliph of the house of Abbas

was heard to declare, that the Christians were most

worthy of trust in the administration of Persia. The

Moslems (said he) will abuse their present fortune; the

Magians regret their fallen greatness; and the Jews are

Their impatient for their approaching deliverance} But

hardships. the slaves of despotism are exposed to the alter­

natives of favour and disgrace. The captive churches

of the east have been afflicted in every age by the avarice

or bigotry of their rulers: and the ordinary and legal

'Absit (<aid the Catholic to the vizier of Bagdad) ut pari loco habeas Nestc-

riauos, quorum prater Arabas nullus alias rex est, et Gracos quorum reges amo-

rendo Arabibus bello mm desistunt, &c. See in the collections of Assemannus,

(Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 94—101.) the state of the Nestorians under the
caliphs.

That of the Jacobites is more concisely exposed in the Preliminary
Dissertation of

the second volume of Assemannus.

h Eutych. Annal. torn. 2. p. 384. 387,388. Renandot, Hist. Patriarch. Alex,

p. 205, 906.257. 331. A taint of the Monothelite heresy might render the first
of

these Greek patriarchs less loyal to the emperors and less obnoxious to the
Arabs.

'Motadhed, who reigned from A.D. 892 to 902. The .Magians still held their

name and rank among the religions of the empire. (Assemanni, Bibliot. Orient,

torn. 4. p. 97.)

