430 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of the Romans.' After the fall of this opulent city, the

provincials and barbarians implored on all sides the

mercy of the conqueror. His vanity or his zeal might be

flattered by offers of tribute, or professions of faith: but

his losses, his fatigues, and the progress of an epidemical

disease, prevented a solid establishment; and the Sara­

cens, after a campaign of fifteen months, retreated to the

confines of Egypt, with the captives and the wealth of

their African expedition. The caliph's fifth was granted

to a favourite, on the nominal payment of five hundred

thousand pieces of gold;' but the state was doubly in­

jured by this fallacious transaction, if each foot-soldier

had shared one thousand, and each horseman three thou­

sand, pieces, in the real division of the plunder. The au­

thor of the death of Gregory was expected to have claim­

ed the most precious reward of the victory: from his

silence it might be presumed that he had fallen in the

battle, till the tears and exclamations of the prefect's

daughter at the sight of Zobeir revealed the valour and

modesty of that gallant soldier. The unfortunate virgin

was offered, and almost rejected, as a slave, by her fa­

ther's murderer, who coolly declared that his sword was

consecrated to the service of religion; and that he la­

boured for a recompense far above the charms of mortal

beauty, or the riches of this transitory life. A reward

congenial to his temper, was the honourable commission

of announcing to the caliph Othman the success of his

arms. The companions, the chiefs, and the people, were

assembled in the mosch of Medina, to hear the interest­

ing narrative of Zobeir; and, as the orator forgot no­

thing except the merit of his own counsels and actions,

'Shaw's Travels, p. 118,119.

1 Mimica emptio (says Abulfeda),erathaec, etmiradouatio; quandoquidem Oth­

man, ejus nomine minimus ex Eerario prills ablatos a-rario prastabat. (Annnl.

Moslem, p. 78.) Elmacin (in his cloudy version, p. 39.) seems to report the
same

job. When the Arabs besieged the palace of Othman, it stood high in their
cata­

logue of grievances.

