CHAP. LII. 503

despotism, diffused a liberal spirit of inquiry and tole­

ration, and encouraged the Arabian sages to suspect that

their caliph was a tyrant and their prophet an impostor.'

The instinct of superstition was alarmed by the intrp-f

duction even of the abstract sciences; and the more ri­

gid doctors of the law condemned the rash and peini­

cious curiosity of Almamon.d To the thirst of martyr­

dom, the vision of paradise, and the belief of predesti­

nation, we must ascribe the invincible enthusiasm of the

prince and people. And the sword of the Saracens

became less formidable, when their youth was drawn

away from the camp to the college, when the armies pf

the faithful presumed to read and to reflect. Yet the

foolish vanity of the Greeks was jealous of their studies,

and reluctantly imparted the sacred fire to the barba­

rians of the east.0

War. of ln tne bloody conflict of the Qmmiades and

Harumai Abbassides, the Greeks had stolen the oppor-

againstthetunity of avenging their wrongs, and enlarging

Romans, ^^ umits gut a severe retribution was ex-

781-805. acted by Mohadi, the third caliph of the new

dynasty, who siezed in his turn the favourable oppor­

tunity, while a woman and a child, Irene and Constan-

tine, were seated on the Byzantine throne. An army of

ninety-five thousand Persians and Arabs was sent from

the Tigris to the Thracian Bosphorus, under the com­

mand of Harun/ or Aaron, the second son of the com­

mander of the faithful. His encampment on the opposite

c Among the Arabian philosophers, Averroes has been accused of despising the

religion of the Jews, the Christians, and the Mahometans. See his article in
Bay le's

Dictionary.) Each of these sects would agree, that in two instances out of
three, his

contempt was reasonable.

ii D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Onentale, p. 546.

» 9u«iXi;« irr«rov Xfint n TIJ» TOT CVTKW yimrn, Ji m TO VxpaMn j«o;
flau/ua^irm

ix»im» wunm *M< iBnn, &c. Cedrenus, p. 548, who relates how manfully the

emperor refused a mathematician to the instances and offers of the caliph
Alma-

mon. This absurd scruple is expressed almost in the same words by the conti-

nuator of Theophaues. (Scriptores post Theophaaem, p. 118.)

f See the reign and character of Harun al Kashid, in the Bibliotheque
Onentale,

p. 431—433. under his proper title; and in the relative articles to which M.
d|Her-

belot refers. That learned collector has shewn much taste in stripping the
oriental

chronicles of their instructiye and amusing anecdotes.

