CHAP. LI. 395

Battle of It was incumbent on the Saracens to exert the

I^ese fr1^ powers of their valour and enthusiasm

November, against the forces of the emperor, who was

taught by repeated losses, that the rovers of the desert

had undertaken, and would speedily achieve, a regular

and permanent conquest. From the provinces of Eu足

rope and Asia, fourscore thousand soldiers were trans足

ported by sea and land to Antioch and Caesarea: the

light troops of the army consisted of sixty thousand

Christian Arabs of the tribes of Gassan. Under the

banner of Jabalah, the last of their princes, they marched

in the van; and it was a maxim of the Greeks, that

for the purpose of cutting diamond, a diamond was the

most effectual. Heraclius withheld his person from the

dangers of the field; but his presumption, or perhaps

his despondency, suggested a peremptory order, that

the fate of the province and the war should be decided

by a single battle. The Syrians were attached to the

standard of Rome and of the cross; but the noble, the

citizen, the peasant, were exasperated by the injustice

and cruelty of a licentious host, who oppressed them as

subjects, and despised them as strangers and aliens .d A

report of these mighty preparations was conveyed to the

Saracens in their camp of Emesa; and the chiefs,

though resolved to fight, assembled a council: the faith

of Abu Obeidah would have expected on the same

spot the glory of martyrdom; the wisdom of Caled ad足

vised an honourable retreat to the skirts of Palestine

and Arabia, where they might await the succours of their

friends, and the attack of the unbelievers. A speedy

messenger soon returned from the throne of Medina,

with the blessings of Omar and Ali, the prayers of the

widows of the prophet, and a reinforcement of eight

thousand Moslems. In their way they overturned a de足

tachment of Greeks, and when they joined at Yermuk,

* I have read somewhere in Tacitus, or Grolius, Subjectos habent tanquam suos,  
viles tanquam alienos. Some Greek officers ravished the wife, and murdered

the child, of their Syrian landlord; and Manuel smiled at hi; undutiful
complaint.

