48 ROMAN EMPIRE.

cence of Justinian/ The Jews, who had been gradu­

ally stripped of their immunities, were oppress­

ed by a vexatious law, which compelled them

to observe the festival of Easter the same day on which

it was celebrated by the Christians/ And they might

complain with the more reason, since the Catholics

themselves did not agree with the astronomical calcu­

lations of their sovereign: the people of Constantino­

ple delayed the beginning of their Lent a whole week

after it had been ordained by authority; and they had

the pleasure of fasting seven days, while meat was ex­

posed for sale by command of the emperor. The Sa-

a- maritans of Palestine' were a motley race, an

ambiguous sect, rejected as Jews by the Pa­

gans, by the Jews as schismatics, and by the Christians

as idolaters. The abomination of the cross had already

been planted on their holy mount of Gerizim," but vthe

persecution of Justinian offered only the alternative of

baptism or rebellion. They chose the latter: under

the standard of a desperate leader, they rose in arms,

and retaliated their wrongs on the lives, the property,

and the temples, of a defenceless people. The Sama­

ritans were finally subdued by the regular forces of the

east; twenty thousand were slain, twenty thousand

were sold by the Arabs to the infidels of Persia and

India, and the remains of that unhappy nation atoned

for the crime of treason by the sin of hypocrisy. It

r Theophan. Chrnn. p. 153. John de Monophyeite bishop of Asia, Is a more

authentic witness of this transaction, in which he was himself employed by the

emperor. (Asseman. Bib. Orient, torn. 1. p. 85.)

• Compare Procopius (Hist. Arcan. c. SB. and Aleman's Notes) with Theo-

phanes. (Chron. p. 190.) The council of Nice has intrusted the patriarch, or

rather the astronomers of Alexandria, with the usual proclamation of Easter;
and

we still read, or rather we do not read, many of the Paschal epistles of St.
Cyril.

Since the reign of Monophytism in Egypt, the Catholics were perplexed by as

foolish a prejudice as that which so long opposed, among the Protestants, the
re­

ception of the Gregorian style.

1 For the religion and history of the Samaritans, consult Basnage, Histoires
des

Juifs, a learned and impartial work.

"Sichem, Neapolis, Naplous, the ancient and modern seat of the Samaritans, is

situate in a valley between the barren Ebal, the mountain of cursing to the
north,

the fruitful Gtrizim, or mountain of blessing to the south, ten or eleven
hours' tra­

vel from Jerusalern. See Maundrel, Journey from Aleppo, &c. p. 59—63.

