CHAP. LIT. 515

enemy in his losses and defeat. In the last of these ex­

peditions he penetrated into Syria, and besieged the

obscure town of Sozopetra, the casual birth-place

of the caliph Motassem, whose father Harun was at­

tended in peace or war by the most favourite of his

wives and concubines. The revolt of a Persian im­

postor, employed at that moment the arms of the Sara­

cen, and he could intercede in favour of a place for which

he felt and acknowledged some degree of filial affection.

These solicitations determined the emperor to wound his

pride in so sensible a part. Sozopetra was levelled with

the ground, the Syrian prisoners were marked or muti­

lated with ignominious cruelty, and a thousand female

captives were forced away from the adjacent territory.

Among these a matron of the house of Abbas invoked,

in an agony of despair, the name of Motassem; and the

insults of the Greeks engaged the honour of her kinsman

to avenge his indignity, and to answer her appeal.

Under the reign of the two elder brothers, the inherit­

ance of the youngest had been confined to Anatolia,

Armenia, Georgia, and Circassia; this frontier station

had exercised his military talents; and among his acci­

dental claims to the name of Octonary* the most meri­

torious are the eight battles which he gained or fought

against the enemies of the Koran. In this personal

quarrel, the troops of Irak, Syria, and Egypt, were re­

cruited from the tribes of Arabia, and the Turkish hordes:

his cavalry might be numerous, though we should de­

duct some myriads from the hundred and thirty thousand

horses of the royal stables; and the expense of the

armament was computed at four millions sterling, or one

hundred thousand pounds of gold. From Tarsus, the

place of assembly, the Saracens advanced in three divi­

sions along the high road of Constantinople: Motassem

> Tha same number was applied to the following circumstance in the life of Mo-

tassem: he was (he eighth of the Abbassides; he reigned tight years, eight
months,

•and eight days; left eight sona, eiglu daughters, right thousand slaves,
eight millions

o gold.

2 L 2

