CHAP. XL1X. 187

siiteenth century, freedom and knowledge had expanded

all the faculties of man; the thirst of innovation super­

seded the reverence of antiquity, and the vigour of Eu­

rope could disdain those phantoms which terrified the

sickly and servile weakness of the Greeks.

The scandal of an abstract heresy can be only

I^tio^of proclaimed to the people by the blast of the

thoimages ecclesiastical trumpet; but the most ignorant

andmonks, . r . , ., , .

A.D.726 can perceive, the most torpid must ieel, the

~n' profanation and downfall of their visible deities.

The first hostilities of Leo were directed against a lofty

Christ on the vestibule, and above the gate, of the palace.

A ladder had been planted for the assault, but it was

furiously shaken by a crowd of zealots and women:

they beheld, with pious transport, the ministers of

sacrilege tumbling from on high, and dashed against

the pavement; and the honours of the ancient martyrs

were prostituted to these criminals, who justly suffered

for murder and rebellion." The execution of the im­

perial edict was resisted by frequent tumults in Con­

stantinople and the provinces: the person of Leo was

endangered, his officers were massacred, and the popu­

lar enthusiasm was quelled by the strongest efforts of

the civil and military power. Of the Archipelago, or

Holy sea, the numerous islands were filled with images

and monks: their votaries abjured, without scruple, the

enemy of Christ, his mother, and the saints: they armed

a fleet of boats and galleys, displayed their consecrated

banners, and boldly steered for the harbour of Constan­

tinople, to place on the throne a new favourite of God

and the people. They depended on the succour of a

miracle; but their miracles were inefficient against the

GreekJire; and, after the defeat and conflagration of

their fleet, the naked islands were abandoned to the cle-

* The holy confessor Theophanes approves the principle of their rebellion, &u»  
xnmipMa {rXi;. (p. 339.) Gregory II. (in Epist. 1. ad Imp. Leon. Concil. torn.
8.

p. 661. 664.) applauds the zeal of the Byzantine women who killed the imperial

officers.

