CHAP. LI. 445

but Alaric would have blushed at the sight of his un足

worthy successor, sustaining on his head a diadem of

pearls, encumbered with a flowing robe of gold and silken

embroidery, and reclining on a litter, or car of ivory,

drawn by two white mules. Notwithstanding the va足

lour of the Saracens, they fainted under the weight of

multitudes, and the plain of Xeres was overspread with

sixteen thousand of their dead bodies. "My brethren

(said Tarik to his surviving companions), the enemy is

before you, the sea is behind; whither would ye fly?

Follow your general; I am resolved either to lose my

life, or to trample on the prostrate king of the Romans."

Besides the resource of despair, he confided in the

secret correspondence and nocturnal interviews of count

Julian, with the sons and the brother of Witiza. The two

princes and the archbishop of Toledo occupied the most

important post: their well-timed defection broke the

ranks of the Christians; each warrior was prompted by

fear or suspicion to consult his personal safety; and the

remains of the Gothic army were scattered or destroyed

in the flight and pursuit of the three following days.

Amidst the general disorder, Roderic started from his

car, and mounted Orelia, the fleetest of his horses;

but he escaped from a soldier's death to perish more

ignobly in the waters of the Boetis or Guadalquivir. His

diadem, his robes, and his courser, were found on the

bank; but as the body of the Gothic prince was lost in

the waves, the pride and ignorance of the caliph must

have been gratified with some meaner head, which was

exposed in triumph before the palace of Damascus.

"And such (continues a valiant historian of the Arabs) is

the fate of those kings who withdraw themselves from a

field of battle."11

P Id sane infortunii icgibus pedem ex acie referentibus sape contingit. Ben
Hazil

of Grenada, in Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 2. p. 327. Some credulous Spa足

niards believe that king Roderic, or Koderigo, escaped to a hermit's cell; and

others that he was cast alive into a tub full of serpents, from whence he ex足

claimed with a lamentable voice, "They devour the part with which I have so

grievously sinned." (Don Quixote, pan 2. lib. y. c. If)

