524 ROMAN EMPIRE.

vernment were reserved for local services or private

magnificence. Instead of a regular supply of men and

money, the successors of the prophet were flattered with

the ostentatious gift of an elephant, or a cast of hawks,

a suit of silk hangings, or some pounds of musk and

amber.1

( After the revolt of Spain, from the temporal

pendent and spiritual supremacy of the Abbassides, the

ynasues' first symptons of disobedience broke forth in the

province of Africa. Ibrahim, the son of Aglab, the lieu­

tenant of the vigilant and rigid Harun, bequeathed to

The A la- ^e dynasty of the Aglabites the inheritance of

bites, A.D. his name and power. The indolence or policy

of the caliphs dissembled the injury and loss,

nd pursued only with poison the founder of the

829^907 Edrisites,™ who erected the kingdom and city of

The Tahe- Fez on the shores of the western ocean." In the

A. D, east, the first dynasty was that of the Taherites,0

813-872. ^ p0sterity Of the valiant Taher, who, in the

civil wars of the sons of Harun, had served with too

much zeal and success the cause of Almamon, the

younger brother. He was sent into honourable exile,

to command on the banks of the Oxus; and the inde­

pendence of his successors, who reigned in Chorasan till

till the fourth generation, was palliated by their modest

1 The dynasties of the Arabian empire may be studied in the Annals of Elmacin
•

Abulpharagius, and Abulfeda, under the proper yeats; in the dictionary of
d'Her-

belot, under the proper names. The tables of M. de Guignes (Hist, des Huns,
torn.

1.) exhibit a general chronology of the east, interspersed with some
historical

anecdotes; but his attachment to national blood has sometimes confounded lhe

order of time and plaoe.

'" The Algabites and Edrisites are the professed subjects of M. de CaiJonne.

(Hist. d'Afrique et de 1' Espagne sous la Domination des Aiabes, torn. 2. p.
1—63.

° To escape the reproach of error, I must criticise the inaccuracies of M. de

Guignes (torn. 1. p. 359.) concerning the Edriaites. 1. The dynasty and city
of Fez

could not be founded in the year of the Hegira 173, since the founder was a
potf-

humous child of a descendant of Ali, who fled from Mecca in the year 168. 9.
This

founder, Edris, the son of Edris, instead of living to the improbable age of
one hun­

dred and twenty years, A. 11. 313, died A. H. 214, in the prime of manhood.
3.Th»

dynasty ended A. H. 307, twenty-three years sooner than it is fixed by the
historian

of the Huns. See the accurate Annals of Abulfeda. p. 158,159. 185. 258.

0 The dynasties of the Taherites and Soffarides, with the rise of that of the
Sa-

manides, are described in the original history and Latin version of Mirchond ;
yet

the most interesting facts had already been drained by the diligence of
M.d'Her-

belot.

