CHAP. XLIX. 193

of justice is in the hands of the magistrate; the more

formidable weapon of excommunication is intrusted to

the clergy; and in the exercise of their divine commis­

sion, a zealous son will not spare his offending father:

the successor of St. Peter may lawfully chastise the

kings of the earth. "You assault us, O tyrant! with

a carnal and military hand: unarmed and naked, we

can only implore the Christ, the prince of the heavenly

host, that he will send unto you.a devil, for the de­

struction of your body and the salvation of your soul.

You declare, with foolish arrogance, I will dispatch my

orders to Rome; I will break in pieces the image of

St. Peter; and Gregory, like his predecessor Martin,

shall be transported in chains, and in exile, to the foot

of the imperial throne. Would to God, that I might be

permitted to tread in the footsteps of the holy Martin;

but may the fate of Constans serve as a warning to the

persecutors of the church. After his just condemnation

by the bishops of Sicily, the tyrant was cut off, in the

fulness of his sins, by a domestic servant; the saint is

still adored by the nations of Scythia, among whom he

ended his banishment and his life. But it is our duty

to live for the edification and support of the faithful

people; nor are we reduced to risk our safety on the

event of a combat. Incapable as you are of defending

your Roman subjects, the maritime situation of the city

may perhaps expose it to your depredation; but we

can remove to the distance of four-and-twenty stadia1 to

the first fortress of the Lombards, and then you

may pursue the winds. Are you ignorant that the

popes are the bond of union, the mediators of peace be­

tween the east and west? The eyes of the nations are

fixed on our humility; and they revere, as a god upon

a-raiix vir^tapim a A;y is-*-./; PK/UHC lif tm

;.T=>l 5ii-;cv TOU?aut/Mtit. (Ki'ist. 1. p. Mil.) This proximity of the
Lombards is

hard of digestion. Camillo Pellegrini (Dissert 4. de Decatfl Beneventi, in the

Script . liul. torn. 5. p. 172, 173.) forcibly reckons the twenty-fourth
stadia, not

from Rome, but from the limits of the Roman dutchy, to the first fortress,
perhaps

Sora, of the Lombards. 1 rather believe that Gregory, with the pedantry of the

age, employs itadia for miles, without much inquiry into the genuine measure.

VOL. VI. O (

