56 ROMAN EMPIRE,

every age that two wills or energies are harmonized in

the person of Christ. The majesty of the pope and the

Roman synod was represented by two priests, one dea­

con, and three bishops; but these obscure Latins had

neither arms to compel, nor treasures to bribe, nor lan­

guage to persuade; and I am ignorant by what arts they

could determine the lofty emperor of the Greeks to ab­

jure the catechism of his infancy, and to persecute the

religion of his fathers. Perhaps the monks and people

of Constantinople0 were favourable to the Lateran creed,

which is indeed the least favourable of the two: and the

suspicion is countenanced by the unnatural moderation

of the Greek clergy, who appear in this quarrel to be

conscious of their weakness. While the synod debated,

a fanatic proposed a more summary decision, by raising

a dead man to life: the prelates assisted at the trial, but

the acknowledged failure may serve to indicate, that the

passions and prejudices of the multitude were not enlist­

ed on the side of the Monothelites. In. the next gene­

ration, when the son of Constantine was deposed and

slain by the disciple of Macarius, they tasted the feast

of revenge and dominion: the image or monument of

the sixth council was defaced, and the original acts were

committed to the flames. But in the second year, their

patron was cast headlong from the throne, the bishops

of the east were released from their occasional confor­

mity, the Roman faith was more firmly replanted by the

orthodox successors of Bardanes, and the fine problems

of the incarnation were forgotten in the more popular

and visible quarrel of the worship of images.?

• The Monothelite Constans was hated by all tw ra mum (says Theophancs,

Chron. p. 292.) i/xwnfln (rtyAfa waja •aanm. When the Monothelite monk failed
in

this miracle, the people shouted o Xacc xnBovm. (Concil. torn. 7. p. 1032.)
But this

was a natural and transient emotion; and I much fear that the latter is an
anti­

cipation of orthodoxy in the good people of Constantinople.

P The history of Monothelitism may be found in the Acts of the Synods of Rome

(torn. 7. p. 77—395. 601—608.) and Constantinople, (p. 609—1429.) Baronius

extracted some original documents from the Vatican library ; and his
chronology

i» rectified by the diligence of Pagi. Even Dupin (Bibliotheque Eccles. torn.
6. p.

57—71.) and Basnage (Hist, de 1'EgUse, torn. 1. p. 541—555.) afford a
tolerable

abridgment.

