110' ROMAN EMPIRE:

pronymus by a second marriage; and the story of these

princes is singular and tragic. The right of primoge­

niture excluded them from the throne; the injustice of

their elder brother defrauded them of a legacy of about

two millions sterling; some vain titles were not deem­

ed a sufficient compensation for wealth and power;

and they repeatedly conspired against their nephew,

before, and after, the death of his father. Their first

attempt was pardoned: for the second offence they

were condemned to the ecclesiastical state; and for the

third treason, Nicephorus, the eldest and most guilty,

was deprived of his eyes, and his four brothers, Chris­

topher, Nicetas, Anthemeus, and Eudoxas, were punish­

ed, as a milder sentence, by the amputation of their

tongues. After five years'confinement, they escaped to

the church of St. Sophia, and displayed a pathetic spec­

tacle to the people. Countrymen and Christians (cried

Nicephorus for himself and his mute brethren), behold

the sons of your emperor, if you can still recognize our

features in this miserable state. A life, an imperfect life,

is all that the malice of our enemies has spared. It is

now threatened, and we now throw ourselves on your

compassion. The rising murmur might have produced

a revolution, had it not been checked by the presence of

a minister, who soothed the unhappy princes with flat­

tery and hope, and gently drew them from the sanctuary

to the palace. They were speedily embarked for Greece,

and Athens was allotted for the place of their exile. In

this calm retreat, and in their helpless condition, Nice­

phorus and his brothers were tormented by the thirst of

power, and tempted by a Sclavonian chief, who offered

to break their prison, and to lead them in arms, and in

the purple, to the gates of Constantinople. But the

Athenian people, ever zealous in the cause of Irene,

prevented her justice or cruelty; and the five- sons

of Copronymus were plunged in eternal darkness and

oblivion.

