452 ROMAN EMPIRE.

kings of Castile and Arragon, we must applaud the mo­

deration and discipline of the Arabian conquerors.

The exploits of Musa were performed in the

ofMusa, evening of life, though he affected to disguise

1 'his age by colouring with a red powder the

whiteness of his beard. But in the love of action and

glory, his breast was still fired with the ardour of youth;

and the possession of Spain was considered only as the

first step to the monarchy of Europe. With a powerful

armament by sea and land, he was preparing to re-

pass the Pyrennees, to extinguish in Gaul and Italy the

declining kingdoms of the Franks and Lombards, and to

preach the unity of God on the altar of the Vatican.

From thence subduing the barbarians of Germany, he

proposed to follow the course of the Danube from its

source to the Euxine sea, to overthrow the Greek or

Roman empire of Constantinople, and, returning from

Europe to Asia, to unite his new acquisitions with An-

tioch and the provinces of Syria.d But his vast enter­

prise, perhaps of easy execution, must have seemed

extravagant to vulgar minds; and the visionary con­

queror was soon reminded of his dependance and servi­

tude. The friends of Tarik had effectually stated his

services and wrongs: at the court of Damascus, the

proceedings of Musa were blamed, his intentions were

suspected, and his delay in complying with the first in­

vitation was chastised by a harsher and more peremptory

summons. An intrepid messenger of the caliph entered

his camp at Lugo in Gallicia, and in the presence of the

Saracens and Christians arrested the bridle of his horse.

His own loyalty, or that of his troops, inculcated the

duty of obedience; and his disgrace was alleviated by

the recall of his rival, and the permission of investing

* This design, which is attested by several Arabian historians, (Cardonnt,  
torn. 1. p. 95, 96.) may be compared with that of Mithridates, to march from
the

Crimea to Rome; or with that of Ciesar, to conquer the east, and to return
home

by the north: and all three ate perhaps surpassed by the resl and successful
en­

terprise of Hannibal.

