CHAP. LI. 389

and conspicuous: they vanished on a sudden; but the

Saracens were comforted by the assurance that the ca­

ravan had turned aside into the mountains, and must

speedily fall into their hands. In traversing the ridges

of the Libanus, they endured intolerable hardships, and

the sinking spirits of the veteran fanatics were sup­

ported and cheered by the unconquerable ardour of a

lover. From a peasant of the country, they were in­

formed that the emperor had sent orders to the colony of

exiles, to pursue without delay the road of the sea-coast,

and of Constantinople; apprehensive, perhaps, that the

soldiers and people of Antioch might be discouraged

by the sight and the story of their sufferings. The Sa­

racens were conducted through the territories of Gabala'

and Laodicea, at a cautious distance from the walls of

the cities; the rain was incessant, the night was dark,

a single mountain separated them from the Roman army;

and Caled, ever anxious for the safety of his brethren,

whispered an ominous dream in the ear of his compa­

nion. With the dawn of day, the prospect again clear­

ed, and they saw before them, in a pleasant valley, the

tents of Damascus. After a short interval of repose and

prayer, Caled divided his cavalry into four, squadrons,

committing the first to his faithful Derar, and reserving

the last for himself. They successively rushed on the

promiscuous multitude, insufficiently provided with arms,

and already vanquished by sorrow and fatigue. Except

a captive who was pardoned and dismissed, the Arabs

enjoyed the satisfaction of believing that not a Christian

of either sex escaped the edge of.their scimitars. The

gold and silver of Damascus was scattered over the camp,

and a royal wardrobe of three hundred load of silk might

clothe an army of naked barbarians. In the tumult of

'The towns of Gabala and Laodicea, which the Arabs passed, still exist in a

state of decay. (Maundrell, p. 11, 12. Focock, vol. 2. p. 13.) Had not the

Christians been overtaken, they must have crossed the Orontes on some bridge
in

the sixteen miles between Antioch and the sea, and might have rejoined the
high

road of Constantinople at Alexandria. The itineraries will represent the
direc­

tions and distances, (p. 146.148. 581, 582. edit. Wesseling.)

