CHAP. XLVH. 81

wretchedness of the Greek patriarch and his diminutive

congregation.1

vi.The VI. TheCopticpatriarch,arebeltotheCaesars,

^"Tand or a slave to the khalifs, still gloried in the filial

WOBIANs. obedience of the kings of Nubia and ^Ethiopia.

He repaid their homage by magnifying their greatness;

and it was boldly asserted that they could bring into the

field a hundred thousand horse with an equal number of

camels ;m that their hand could pour out or restrain the

waters of the Nile ;n and the peace and plenty of Egypt

was obtained, even in this world, by the intercession of

the patriarch. In exile at Constantinople, Theodosius

recommended to his patroness the conversion of the

black nations of Nubia," from the tropic of Cancer to

the confines of Abyssinia. Her design was suspected

and emulated by the more orthodox emperor. The rival

missionaries, a Melchite and a Jacobite, embarked at

the same time; but the empress, from a motive of love

or fear, was more effectually obeyed; and the Catholic

priest was detained by the president of Thebais, while

the king of Nubia and his court were hastily baptized

in the faith of Dioscorus. The tardy envoy of Justinian

'The history of the Copts, their religion, manners, &c. may be found in the
abb*

Renandot's motley work, neither a translation nor an original; theChronicon

Orientale of Peter, a Jacobite; in the two versions of Abraham Ecchellensis,

Paris, 1651, and John Simon Asseman, Venet. 1729. These annals descend no

lower than the thirteenth century. The more recent accounts must be searched

for in the travellers into Egypt, and the Nouveaux Memoires des Missions du

Levant. In the last century, Joseph Abodacnus, a native of Cairo, published at

Oxford, in thirty pages, a slight Flistoria Jacobitarum, 147 post 150.

• About the year 737. See Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 321, Z2S.

Eimacin, Hist. Saracen, p. 99.

» Ludolph. Hist. /T'.thiopic. et Comment.lib. 1. c. 8. Renaudot, Hist.
Patriarch.

Alex. 480, ore. This opinion, introduced into Egypt and Europe by the artifice
of

the Copts, the pride of the Abyssinians, the fear and ignorance of the Turks
and

Arabs, has not even the semblance of truth. The rains of Ethiopia do not, in
the

increase of the Nile, consult the will of the monarch. If the river approaches
at

Napata, within three days' journey of the Red Sea, (see D'Anville's maps) a
canal

that should divert its course would demand, and most probably surpass, the
power

of the Caesars.

• The Abyssinians, who still preserve the features and olive complexion of the

Arabs, afford a proof that two thousand years are not sufficient to change the
co­

lour of the human race. The Nubians, and African race, are pure negroes, as

black as those of Senegal or Congo, with flat noses, thick lips, and woolly
hair.

(Buffon, Hint. Naturelle, torn. 5. p. 117.143,144. 166. 219. edit, in 12mo.
Paris,

1769.) The ancients beheld, without much attention, the extraordinary pheno­

menon which has exercised the philosophers and theologians of modern rimes.

VOL. VT. O

