202 ROMAN EMPIRE.

try, and perhaps Europe, from the Mahometan yoke.

The ambassadors of the pope were received by Charles

with decent reverence; but the greatness of his occu­

pations, and the shortness of his life, prevented his in­

terference in the affairs of Italy, except by a friendly

and ineffectual mediation. His son Pepin, the heir of

his power and virtues, assumed the office of champion

of the Roman church; and the zeal of the French prince

appears to have been prompted by the love of glory and

religion. But the danger was on the banks of the Ti­

ber, the succour on those of the Seine; and our sym­

pathy is cold to the relation of distant misery. Amidst

the tears of the city, Stephen III. embraced the gene­

rous resolution of visiting in person the courts of Lom-

bardy and France, to deprecate the injustice of his

enemy, or to excite the pity and indignation of his

friend. After soothing the public despair by litanies

and orations, he undertook this laborious journey with

the ambassadors of the French monarch and the Greek

emperor. The king of the Lombards was inexorable;

but his threats could not silence the complaints, nor re­

tard the speed, of the Roman pontiff, who traversed the

Pennine Alps, reposed in the abbey of St. Maurice,

and hastened to grasp the right hand of his protector,

a hand which was never lifted in vain, either in war or

friendship. Stephen was entertained as the visible suc­

cessor of the apostle; at the next assembly, the field of

March or of May, his injuries were exposed to a devout

and warlike nation, and he repassed the Alps, not as a

suppliant, but as a conqueror, at the head of a French

army, which was led by the king in person. The

Lombards, after a weak resistance, obtained an ignomi­

nious peace, and swore to restore the possessions, and

to respect the sanctity, of the Roman church. But no

sooner was Astolphus delivered from the presence of

the French arms, than he forgot his promise and re­

sented his disgrace. Rome was again encompassed by

his arms; and Stephen, apprehensive of fatiguing the

