518 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of boiling oil.0 To a point of honour Motassem had

sacrificed a flourishing city, two hundred thousand lives,

and the property of millions. The same caliph de­

scended from his horse, and dirtied his robe to relieve

the distress of a decrepit old man, who, with his laden

ass, had tumbled into a ditch. On which of these

actions did lie reflect with the most pleasure, when he

was summoned by the angel of death ?d

Disorders With Motassem, the eighth of the Abbassides,

Turkish the glory of his family and nation expired. When

Arabian conquerors had spread themselves

— aro, &c. over the east, and were mingled with the servile

crowds of Persia, Syria, and Egypt, they insensibly lost

the freeborn and martial virtues of the desert. The cou­

rage of the south is the artificial fruit of discipline and

prejudice; the active power of enthusiasm had decayed,

and the mercenary forces of the caliphs were recruited

in those climates of the north, of which valour is the

hardy and spontaneous production. Of the Turks,0 who

dwelt beyond the Oxus and Jaxartes, the robust youths,

either taken in war or purchased in trade, were educated

in the exercises of the field, and the profession of the

Mahometan faith. The Turkish guards stood in arms

round the throne of their benefactor, and their chiefs

usurped the dominion of the palace and the provinces.

Motassem, the first author of this dangerous example, in­

duced into the capital above fifty thousand Turks: their

licentious conduct provoked the public indignation, and

the quarrels of the soldiers and people induced the

caliph to retire from Bagdad, and establish his own re­

c Constantin. Porpbyrogenitus, in Vit. Basil, c. 61. p. 186. These Saracens
were

indeed treated with peculiar severity as pirates and reoegadoes.

d ForTheophilus, Motassem, and the Amorian war, see the Continuater of Tbeo-

phanes, (lib. 3. p. 77 — 84.) Genesius, (lib. 3. p. 24 — 34.) Cedrenus, ( 328
— ~;32.^

Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen. p. 180.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 165, 166.)
Abulfeda,

(Annal. Moslem, p. 191.) d'Herbelot. (Bibliot. Orientale, p. 639, 640.)

'M. de Guigues, who sometimes leaps, and sometimes stumbles, in the gulf be­

tween Chinese and Mahometan story, thinks he can see that these Turks are the

Hoci-kc, alias the Kao-lehe, or high-waggons; that they were divided into
fifteen

hordes, from China and Siberia to the dominions of the caliphs and Samanides,
&c.

(Hist, des Huns, torn. 3. p. 1—33. 124—131.)

