CHAP. LI. 401

Of Aleppo To achieve what yet remained of the Syrian

tioc*n war, ^6 caliph had formed two separate armies;

A.D.638. a chosen detachment, under Amrou and Yezid,

was left in the camp of Palestine; while the larger di­

vision, under the standard of Abu Obeidah and Caled,

marched away to the north against Antioch and Aleppo.

The latter of these, the Beraa of the Greeks, was not yet

illustrious as the capital of a province or a kingdom;

and the inhabitants, by anticipating their submission,

and pleading their poverty, obtained a moderate com­

position for their lives and religion. But the castle of

Aleppo,q distinct from the city, stood erect on a lofty

artificial mound: the sides were sharpened to a preci­

pice, and faced with free stone; and the breadth of the

ditch might be filled with water from the neighbouring

springs. After the loss of three thousand men, the gar­

rison was still equal to the defence; and Youkinna, their

valiant and hereditary chief, had murdered his brother,

a holy monk, for daring to pronounce the name of peace.

In a siege of four or five months, the hardest of the

Syrian war, great numbers of the Saracens were killed

and wounded: their removal to the distance of a mile

could not seduce the vigilance of Youkinna: nor could

the Christians be terrified by the execution of three hun­

dred captives, whom they beheaded before the castle

wall. The silence, and at length the complaints, of

Abu Obeidah informed the caliph, that their hope and

patience were consumed at the foot of this impregnable

fortress. I am variously affected (replied Omar) by the

difference of your success: but I charge you by no means

to raise the siege of the castle. Your retreat would dimi­

nish the reputation of our arms, and encourage the infi-

1 The Persian historian of Timor (torn. 3. lib. 5. c. 21. p. 300.) describes
the

castle of Aleppo, as founded on a rock one hundred cubite in height; a proof,
sayi

the French translator, that he had never visited the place. It is now in the
midst

of the city, of no strength, with a single gate; the circuit is about five or
six hun­

dred paces, and the ditch half full of stagnant water. (Voyages de Tavernier.

torn. 1. p. 149. Pocock, vol. 1. part. 1. p. 150.) The fortresses of the east
an

contemptible to a European eye.

VOL. vi. 2 n

