CHAP. XLVIII. 121

compelled to leave the inheritance of the empire. But

his jealousy was exasperated by envy and disease: he

feared the dangerous virtues which might either sup­

port or oppress their infancy and weakness; and the

dying emperor demanded the head of the Persian prince.

With savage delight, he recognised the familiar features

of his brother: Thou art no longer Theophobus, he said:

and sinking on his couch, he added, with a faultering

voice, Soon, too soon, I shall be no more Theophilus!

The Russians, who have borrowed from the Greeks

the greatest part of their civil and ecclesiastical policy,

preserved, till the last century, a singular institution in

the marriage of the czar. They collected, not the vir­

gins of every rank and of every province, a vain and ro­

mantic idea, but the daughters of the principal nobles,

who awaited in the palace the choice of their sovereign.

It is affirmed, that a similar method was adopted in the

nuptials of Theophilus. With a golden apple in his

hand, he slowly walked between two lines of contending

beauties: his eye was detained by the charms of Icasia,

and, in the awkwardness of a first declaration, the prince

could only observe, that in this world, women had been

the cause of much evil: And surely, sir (she pertly re­

plied), they have likewise been the occasion of much good.

This affectation of unseasonable wit displeased the im­

perial lover: he turned aside in disgust; Icasia con

cealed her mortification in a convent: and the modest

silence of Theodora was rewarded with the golden apple.

She deserved the love, but did not escape the severity,

of her lord. From the palace garden he beheld a ves­

sel deeply laden, and steering into the port: on the

discovery that the precious cargo of Syrian luxury was

the property of his wife, he condemned the ship to the

flames, with a sharp reproach, that her avarice had de­

graded the character of an empress into that of a mer-

Michaei chant. Yet his last choice intrusted her with

A*b 84?, the guardianship of the empire and her son

Jan. 20. 'Michael, who was left an orphan in the fifth

