304 ROMAN EMPIRE.

may be estimated by the absence of eighty-three men

and eighteen women, who retired to Ethiopia in the se­

venth year of his mission; and his party was fortified

by the timely conversion of his uncle Hamza, and of the

fierce and inflexible Omar, who signalized in the cause

of Islam the same zeal which he had exerted for its de­

struction. Nor was the charity of Mahomet confined

to the tribe of Koreish or the precincts of Mecca: on

solemn festivals, in the days of pilgrimage, he frequented

the Caaba, accosted the strangers of every tribe, and

urged, both in private converse and public discourse,

the belief and worship of a sole deity. Conscious of his

reason and of his weakness, he asserted the liberty of

conscience, and disclaimed the use of religious violence/

but he called the Arabs to repentance, and conjured

them to remember the ancient idolaters of Ad and Tha-

mund, whom the divine justice had swept away from

the face of the earth." -

is opposed ^ne People of Mecca were hardened in their

ty the unbelief by superstition and envy. The elders

A. D. ' of the city, the uncles of the prophet, affected to

''despise the presumption of an orphan, the re­

former of his country; the pious orations of Mahomet in

the Caaba were answered by the clamours of Abu Taleb.

Citizens and pilgrims, listen not to the tempter, hearken

not to his impious novelties. Standfast in the worship of

Al Ldta and Al Uzzah. Yet the son of Abdullah was

ever dear to the aged chief; and he protected the fame

and person of his nephew against the assaults of the

Koreishites, who had long been jealous of the pre-emi­

nence of the family of Hashem. Their malice was co­

J The passages of the Koran in the behalf of toleration, are strong and numer­

ous: c. 2. v. 257. c. 16. 129. c. 17. 54. c.45. 15. c. 50. 39. c. B8. 81, &c.
with the

notes of Maracci and Sale. This character alone may generally decide the
doubts

of the learned, whether a chapter was revealed at Mecca or Medina.

'See the Koran (passim, and especially c. 7. p. 123,124, &c.) and the
tradition

of the Arabs. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 35—37.) The caverns of the tribe of Tha-

mund, fit for men of the ordinary stature, were shewn in the midway between

Medina and Damascus, (Abulfed. Arabiae Descript. p. 43,44.) and may be pro­

bably ascribed to the Troglodites of the primitive world, Michaelis, ad
Lowth'd*

Poesi Hebraor. p. 131—134. Recherches sur les Egyptiens, torn. 2. p. 48, &c.)

