CHAP. XLVII. 53

Justinian, remember your baptism and your creed! Let

not your gray hairs be defiled with heresy. Recall

your fathers from exile, and your followers from perdi­

tion. You cannot be ignorant, that Italy and Gaul,

Spain and Africa, already deplore your fall, and ana­

thematize your name. Unless, without delay, you destroy

what you have taught; unless you exclaim, with a loud

voice, I have erred, I have sinned, anathema to Nestorius,

anathema to Eutyches, you will deliver your soul to the

same flames in which they will eternally burn. He died

and made no sign.g His death restored in some de­

gree the peace of the church, and the reigns of his four

successors, Justin, Tiberius, Maurice, and Phocas, are

distinguished by a rare, though fortunate, vacancy, in

the ecclesiastical history of the east.11

The Mono- The faculties of sense and reason are least. ca-

t^era0011 pable of acting on themselves; the eye is most

A. D. 629: inaccessible to the sight, the soul to the thought;

yet we think, and even feel, that one will, a sole principle

of action, is essential to a rational and conscious being.

When Heraclius returned from the Persian war, the or­

thodox hero consulted his bishops, whether the Christ

whom he adored, of one person, but of two natures, was

actuated by a single or a double will. They replied in the

singular, and the emperor was encouraged to hope that

the Jacobites of Egypt and Syria might be reconciled by

the profession of a doctrine, most certainly harmless, and

most probably true, since it was taught even by the Nes-

torians themselves.' The experiment was tried without

*Nicetius, bishop of Treves: (Concil. torn. 6. p. 511—513.) he himself, like  
most of the Galilean prelates, (Grcgor. Epist. lib. 7. ep. 5. in Concil- torn.
6. p.1007.)

was separated from the communion of the four patriarchs by his refusal to
condemn

the three chapters. Baronius almost pronounces the damnation of Justinian.

(A. D. 565. no. 6.)

k After relating the last heresy of Justinian, (lib. 4. c. 39—41.) and the
edict of

his successor, (lib. 5. c. 3.) the remainder of the history of Evagrius is
filled with

i i \ i I, instead of ecclesiastical events.

1 This extraordinary, and perhaps inconsistent, doctrine of the Nestorians,
had

been observed by La Croze, (Christianisme des Indcs, torn. 1. p. 19, 20.) and
is

more fully exposed by Abulpharagius (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 292.) Hist.
Dy­

nast, p. 21. vers. Latin Pocock), and Asscman himself, (torn. 4. p. 218.) They
seem

