CHAP. KLVIII, 105

successor. On the festival of his birth-day, Philippicus

entertained the multitude with the games of the hippo­

drome; from thence he paraded through the streets

with a thousand banners and a thousand trumpets; re­

freshed himself in the baths of Zeuxippus, and, return­

ing to the palace, entertained his nobles with a sump­

tuous banquet. At the meridian hour he withdrew to

his chamber, intoxicated with flattery and wine, and

forgetful that his example had made every subject am­

bitious, and that every ambitious subject was his secret

enemy. Some bold conspirators introduced themselves

in the disorder of the feast; and the slumbering monarch

was surprised, bound, blinded, and deposed, before he

Anasta- was sensible of his danger. Yet the traitors

i'Vm were deprived of their reward; and the free

June 4. 'voice of the senate and people promoted Arte-

mius from the office of secretary to that of emperor: he

assumed the title of Anastasius II. and displayed in

a short and troubled reign the virtues both of peace and

war. But after the extinction of the imperial line, the

rule of obedience was violated, and every change dif­

fused the seeds of new revolutions. In a mutiny of the

fleet, an obscure and reluctant officer of the revenue

•was forcibly invested with the purple: after some

months of a naval war, Anastasius resigned the sceptre;

and the conqueror, Theodosius III. submitted

, *n his turn to the superior ascendant of Leo,

January. fae general and emperor of the oriental troops.

His two predecessors were permitted to embrace the

ecclesiastical profession: the restless impatience of

Anastasius tempted him to -risk and to lose his life in a

treasonable enterprise; but the last days of Theodosius

were honourable and secure. The single and sublime

word, "HEALTH," which he inscribed on his tomb, ex­

presses the confidence of philosophy or religion; and

the fame of his miracles was long preserved among the

people of Ephesus. This convenient shelter of the

