120 ROMAN EMPIRE.

in the hippodrome; and as these dreadful examples

might be the effects of error or caprice, they must have

alienated from his service the best and wisest of the ci­

tizens. But the pride of the monarch was flattered in

the exercise of power, or, as he thought, of virtue; and

the people, safe in their obscurity, applauded the dan­

ger and debasement of their superiors. This extraordi­

nary rigour was justified, in some measure, by its salu­

tary consequences; since, after a scrutiny of seventeen

days, not a complaint or abuse could be found in the

court or city; and it might be alleged that the Greeks

could be ruled only with a rod of iron, and that the

public interest is the motive and law of the supreme

judge. Yet in the crime, or the suspicion, of treason,

that judge is of all others the most credulous and par­

tial. Theophilus might inflict a tardy vengeance on

the assassins of Leo and the saviours of his father; but

he enjoyed the fruits of their crime; and his jealous ty­

ranny sacrificed a brother and a prince to the future

safety of his life. A Persian of the race of the Sassa-

nides died in poverty and exile at Constantinople, leav­

ing an only son, the issue of a plebeian marriage. At

the age of twelve years, the royal birth of Theophobus

was revealed, and his merit was not unworthy of his

birth. He was educated in the Byzantine palace, a

Christian and a soldier; advanced with rapid steps in

the career of fortune and glory; received the hand of

the emperor's sister; and was promoted to the command

of thirty thousand Perians, who, like his father, had fled

from the Mahometan conquerors. These troops, doubly

infected with mercenary and fanatic vices, were desirous

of revolting against their benefactor, and erecting the

standard of their native king: but the royal Theophobus

rejected their offers, disconcerted their schemes, and es­

caped from their hands to the camp or palace of his royal

brother. A generous confidence might have secured a

faithful and able guardian for his wife and his infant

son, to whom Theophilus, in the flower of his age, was

