126 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Theophilus; who, though himself of a diminutive per­

son, was always followed by a train of tall and handsome

domestics. Basil attended his patron to the government

of Peloponnesus; eclipsed, by his personal merit, the

birth and dignity of Theophilus, and formed an useful

connexion with a wealthy and charitable matron of Pa-

tras. Her spiritual or carnal love embraced the young

adventurer, whom she adopted as her son. Danielis pre­

sented him with thirty slaves; and the produce of her

, bounty was expended in the support of his brothers, and

the purchase of some large estates in Macedonia. His

gratitude or ambition still attached him to the service of

Theophilus; and a lucky accident recommended him to

the notice of the court. A famous wrestler, in the train

of the Bulgarian ambassadors, had defied, at the royal

banquet, the boldest and most robust of the Greeks.

The strength of Basil was praised; he accepted the chal­

lenge; and the barbarian champion was overthrown at

the first onset. A beautiful but vicious horse was con­

demned to be hamstrung; it was subdued by the dexte­

rity and courage of the servant of Theophilus; and his

conqueror was promoted to an honourable rank in the

imperial stables. But it was impossible to obtain the

confidence of Michael, without complying with his vices;

and his new favourite, the great chamberlain of the pa­

lace, was raised and supported by a disgraceful marriage

with a royal concubine, and the dishonour of his sister,

who succeeded to her place. The public administration

had been abandoned to the Caesar Bardas, the brother

and enemy of Theodora; but the arts of female influ­

ence persuaded Michael to hate and to fear his uncle: he

was drawn from Constantinople, under the pretext of a

Cretan expedition, and stabbed in the tent of audience,

by the sword of the chamberlain, and in the presence of

the emperor. About a month after this execution, Basil

was invested with the title of Augustus and the govern­

ment of the empire. He supported this unequal assor

