CHAP. L. 327

ness of their Arabian brethren had restrained them from

opposing his ambition: the disciples of Jesus were en­

deared to the enemy of the Jews; and it was the inte­

rest of a conqueror to propose a fair capitulation to the

most powerful religion of the earth.

Death of Till the age of sixty-three years, the strength

^D°632 of Mahomet was equal to the temporal and spi-

Juno 7. ritual fatigues of his mission. His epileptic fits,

an absurd calumny of the Greeks, would be an object of

pity rather than abhorrence,1 but he seriously believed

that he was poisoned at Chaibar by the revenge of a

Jewish female.™ During four years, the health of the

prophet declined; his infirmities increased; but his mor­

tal disease was a fever of fourteen days, which deprived

him by intervals of the use of reason. As soon as he was

conscious of his danger, he edified his brethren by the

humility of his virtue or penitence. If there be any man

(said the apostle from the pulpit) whom I have unjustly

scourged, I submit my own back to the lash of retaliation.

Have I aspersed the reputation of a Mussulman? let him

proclaim my faults in the face of the congregation. Has

any one been despoiled of his goods? the little that I pos­

sess shall compensate the principal and the interest of the

debt.— Yes (replied a voice from the crowd), / am en-

tilled to threedrachms of silver. Mahometheard the com­

plaint, satisfied the demand, and thanked his creditor for

accusing him in this world rather than at the day of

judgment He beheld with temperate firmness the ap­

proach of death; enfranchised his slaves (seventeen men,

quotes the impostor's treaty with the Nestorian patriarch; (Asseman. Bibliot.

Orient, torn. 2. p. 418.) but Abulpharagius was primate of the Jacobites.

1 The epilepsy, or falling sickness, of Mahomet, is asserted by Theophanes,
'/.i,-

naras, and the rest of the Greeks; and is greedily swallowed by the gross
bigotry

of Hottinger, (Hist. Orient, p. 10, 11.) Prideaux, (Life of Mahomet, p. I3.)
and

Maracci. (torn. 2. Alcoran, (p. 762, 763.) The titles (|A» wrapptd up, tin-
covered)

of two chapters of the Koran (73, 74.) can hardly be strained to such an
interpre­

tation; the silence, the ignorance, of the Mahometan commentators, is more
con­

clusive than the most peremptory denial : and the charitable side is espoused
bjr

Odkley, (Hist, of the Saracens, torn. 1. p. 301.) Gagnier, (ad Abalfeda, p. 9.
Vie

de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 118.) and Sale. (Koran, p. 469—174.)

r" This poison (more ignominious since it was offered as a test of his
prophetic

knowledge) is frankly confessed by his zealous votaries, Abulfeda (p. 92.) and
A1

Jannabi. (apud Gagnier, torn. -. p. 286—288.)

