CHAP. XLVI1I. 89

neither softened by the weakness of humanity, nor ani­

mated by the vigour of memorable crimes. The free­

men of antiquity might repeat with generous enthusiasm

the sentence of Homer, that on the first day of his ser­

vitude, the captive is deprived of one half of his manly

virtue. But the poet had only seen the effects of civil

or domestic slavery, nor could he foretel that the second

moiety of manhood must be annihilated by the spiritual

despotism, which shackles, not only the actions, but

even the thoughts, of the prostrate votary. By this

double yoke, the Greeks were oppressed under the suc­

cessors of Heraclius, the tyrant; a law of eternal justice

was degraded by the vices of his subjects; and on the

throne, in the camp, in the schools, we search, perhaps

with fruitless diligence, the names and characters that

may deserve to be rescued from oblivion. Nor are the

defects of the subjects compensated by the skill and va­

riety of the painters. Of a space of eight hundred

years, the four first centuries are overspread with a

cloud, interrupted by some faint and broken rays of

historic light: in the lives of the emperors, from Mau­

rice to Alexius, Basil the Macedonian has alone been

the theme of a separate work; and the absence, or loss,

or imperfection, of contemporary evidence, must be

poorly supplied by the doubtful authority of more re­

cent compilers. The four last centuries are exempt

from the reproach of penury: and with the Comnenian

family, the historic muse of Constantinople again re­

vives, but her apparel is gaudy, her motions are with­

out elegance or grace. A succession of priests, or

courtiers, treads in each other's footsteps in the same

path of servitude and superstition; their views are nar­

row, their judgment is feeble, or corrupt; and we close

the volume of copious barrenness, still ignorant of the

causes of events, the characters of the actors, and the

manners of the times, which they celebrate or deplore.

The observation which has been applied to a man, may

