CHAP. XLIX. 18.5

invective: and his own party accused him of an imperfect

discharge of his duty, and urged for his imitation, the

example of the Jewish king, who had broken without

scruple the brazen serpent of the temple. By a second

edict, he proscribed the existence as well as the use of

religious pictures; the churches of Constantinople and

the provinces were cleansed from idolatry; the images

of Christ, the Virgin, and the saints, were demolished,

or a smooth surface of plaster was spread over the walls

of the edifice. The sect of the Iconoclasts was supported

by the zeal and despotism of six emperors, and the east

and west were involved in anoisy conflict of one hundred

and twenty years. It was the design of Leo the Isau-

rian to pronounce the condemnation of images, as an

article of faith, and by the authority of a general council:

but the convocation of such an assembly was reserved

for his son Constantine;' and though it is stigmatized by

triumphant bigotry as a meeting of fools and atheists,

their own partial and mutilated acts betray many symp-

Theirs toms of reason and piety. The debates and

nod of decrees of many provincial synods introduc-

Constan- A 1 i .i i • ,

tinopie, ed the summons of the general council which

'7o4'met in the suburbs of Constantinople, and was

composed of the respectable number of three hundred

and thirty-eight bishops of Europe and Anatolia; for

the patriarchs of Antioch and Alexandria were the

slaves of the caliph, and the Roman pontiff had with­

drawn the churches of Italy and the west from the

communion of the Greeks. This Byzantine synod as­

sumed the rank and powers of the seventh general

council; yet even this title was a recognition of the six

preceding assemblies which had laboriously built the

structure of the Catholic faith. After a serious delibera­

1 Some flowers of rhetorick are IounJ» trapm/un xai aS«v, and the bishops TOI;
/ua-

Tjuf fjri>. By Damascenus it is styled oxufo; xai nSfx-ro;. (Opera, torn. 1.
p. 623.)

Spanheim's Apology for the Synod of Constantinople (p. 171, &c.) is worked up

with troth and ingenuity, from such materials as he could find in the Nicene
Acts,

(p. 1046, &c.) The witty John of Damascus converts (urinuirouc into ivit

makes them xwxuiwXsut, slaves of their belly, &c. Opera, torn. 1. p. 306.

