CHAP. XLVII. 11

existence; that the Almighty had been scourged and

crucified; that his impassible essence had felt pain and

anguish; that his omniscience was not exempt from

ignorance, and that the source of life and immorality

expired on mount Calvary. These alarming conse­

quences were affirmed with unblushing simplicity by

Apollinaris,* bishop of Laodicea, and one of the lumi­

naries of the church. The son of a learned gramma­

rian, he was skilled in all the sciences of Greece; elo­

quence, erudition, and philosophy, conspicuous in the

volumes of Apollinaris, were humbly devoted to the

service of religion. The worthy friend of Athanasius,

the worthy antagonist of Julian, he bravely wrestled

with the Arians and Polytheists, and, though he affected

the rigour of geometrical demonstration, his commen­

taries revealed the literal and allegorical sense of the

Scriptures. A mystery, which had long floated in the

looseness of popular belief, was defined by his perverse

diligence in a technical form; and he first proclaimed

the memorable words,—One incarnate nature of Christ,

which are still re-echoed with hostile clamours in the

churches of Asia, Egypt, and ^Ethiopia. He taught

that the Godhead was united or mingled with the body

of a man; and that the Logos, the eternal Wisdom,

supplied in the flesh the place and office of a human

soul. Yet as the profound doctor had been terrified at

his own rashness, Apollinaris was heard to mutter some

faint accents of excuse and explanation. He acqui­

esced in the old distinction of the Greek philosophers,

between the rational and sensitive soul of man; that he

might reserve the Logos for intellectual functions, and

employ the subordinate human principle in the meaner

actions of animal life. With the moderate Docetes, he

• For Apollinaris and his sect, see Socrates, lib. 2. c. 46. lib. 3. c. 16.
Sozomen,

lib. 5. c. 18. lib. 6. c. 95—27. Theodoret, lib. 5. 3.10,11. Tillemont,
Memoires

Eccleaiastiques, torn. 7. p. 602—638. Not. p. 789—794. in quarto, Venise,
1732.

The contemporary saints always mention the bishop of Laodieen, as a friend and

brother. The style of the more recent historians is harsh and hostile; yet
Philp-

•torghii compares him (lib. 8. c. 11—15.) to Basil and Gregory.

