CHAP. LI. 369

and final stand for their religion and country; and the

decisive battle of Nehavend was styled by the Arabs the

victory of victories. If it be true that the flying general

of the Persians was stopped and overtaken in a crowd of

mules and camels laden with honey, the incident, how­

ever slight or singular, will denote the luxurious impe­

diments of an oriental army/

Conquest The geography of Persia is darkly delineated

A.D?6S7 by the Greeks and Latins; but the most illus-

~651- trious of her cities appear to be more ancient

than the invasion of the Arabs. By the reduction of

Ramadan and Ispahan, of Caswin, Tauris, and Rei, they

gradually approached the shores of the Caspian sea;

and the orators of Mecca might applaud the success and

spirit of the faithful, who had already lost sight of the

northern bear, and had almost transcended the bounds

of the habitable world.g Again turning towards the

west and the Roman empire, they repassed the Tigris

over the bridge of Mosul, and, in the captive provinces

of Armenia and Mesopotamia, embraced their victorious

brethren of the Syrian army. From the palace of Madayn

their eastern progress was not less rapid or extensive.

They advanced along the Tigris and the Gulf; pene­

trated through the passes of the mountains into the

valley of Estachar or Persepolis; and profaned the last

sanctuary of the Magian empire. The grandson of

Chosroes was nearly surprised among the falling columns

and mutilated figures; a sad emblem of the past and

present fortune of Persia;11 he fled with accelerated haste

'See the article of Nehavend, in d'Herbelot, p. 667, 668. and .Voyages en Tur-

quie et en Perse, par Otter, torn. 1. p. 191.

f It is in such a style of ignorance and wonder that the Athenian orator
describes

the Arctic conquestsof Alexander, who never advances beyond the shores of the
Cas­

pian, AXifrwJpot •£» -Pi! »fxrcu xai -rnt iHuuftmt, oAiyouJtif, xamt
fMtSuinwa. Eschines

contra Ctesiphontem, torn. 3. p. 554. edit. Graec. Orator. Reiske. This
memorable

cause was pleaded at Athens, Olymp. 112. 3. (before Christ 300) in the autumn,

(Taylor, prafat. p. 370, &c.) about a year after the battle of Arbela; and
Alex­

ander, in the pursuit of Darius, was marching towards Hyrcania and Bactriana.

11 We are indebted for this curious particular to the Dynasties of
Abulpharagius,

p. 116. but it is needless to prove the identity of Estachar and Persepolis;
(d'Her­

belot, p. 327.) and still more needless to copy the drawings and descriptions
of

air John Chardin, or Corneille le Brnyn.

VOL. VI. 2 B

