298 ROMAN EMPIRE.

cuses him of fraud or extortion, the tenth, under the idea

of restitution, is enlarged to ajifth* Benevolence is the

foundation, of justice, since we are forbid to injure those

whom we are bound to assist. A prophet may reveal

the secrets of heaven and of futurity;. but in his moral

precepts he can only repeat the lessons of our own

hearts.

Remittee- The two articles of belief, and the four prac-

^™. tical duties of Islam, are guarded by rewards and

punishments; and the faith of the Mussulman is devoutly

fixed on the event of the judgment and the last day.

The prophet has not presumed to determine the moment

of that awful catastrophe, though he darkly announces

the signs, both in heaven and earth, which will precede

the universal dissolution, when life shall be destroyed,

and the order of creation shall be confounded in the pri­

mitive chaos. At the blast of the trumpet, new worlds

will start into being; angels, genii, and men, will arise

from the dead, and the human soul will again be united

to the body. The doctrine of the resurrection was first

entertained by the Egyptians;0 and their mummies were

embalmed, their pyramids were constructed, to preserve

the ancient mansion of the soul, during a period of three

thousand years. But the attempt is partial and unavail­

ing; and it is with a more philosophic spirit that Maho­

met relies on the omnipotence of the Creator, whose

word can reanimate the breathless clay, and collect the

innumerable atoms, that no longer retain their form or

substance.11 The intermediate state of the soul it is hard

i The jealousy of Maracci (Prodromus, part 4. p. 33.) prompts him to enumerate

the more liberal alma of the Catholics of Rome. Fifteen great hospitals are
open

to many thousand patients and pilgrims, fifteen hundred maidens are annually
por­

tioned, fifty-six charity-schools are founded' for both sexes, one hundred and
twenty

confraternities relieve the wants of their brethren, &c. The benevolence of
London

is still more extensive; but I am afraid that much more is to be ascribed to
the

humanity, than to the religion of the people.

0 See Herodotus, (lib. 2.c.l23.)and our learned countryman, sir John Marsham.

(Canon. Chronicus, p. 46.) The AJnf of the same writer (p. 244—274.) is an
ela­

borate sketch of the infernal regions, as they were painted by the fancy of
the

Egyptians and Greeks, of the poets and philosophers of antiquity.

PThe Koran(c. 2. p. 259, &C. of Sale,p. 32. of Maracci, p. 97.)relates an
inge­

nious miracle, which satisfied the curiosity, and confirmed the faith, of
Abraharn.

