438 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Under the standard of their queen Cahina, the inde­

pendent tribes acquired some degree of union and dis­

cipline; and as the Moors respected in their females

the character of a prophetess, they attacked the invaders

with an enthusiasm similar to their own. The veteran

bands of Hassan were inadequate to the defence of Africa:

the conquests of an age were lost in a single day; and

the Arabian chief, overwhelmed by the torrent, retired

to the confines of Egypt, and expected, five years, the

promised succours of the caliph. After the retreat of

the Saracens, the victorious prophetess assembled the

Moorish chiefs, and recommended a measure of strange

and savage policy. "Our cities (said she), and the

gold and silver which they contain, perpetually attract

the arms of the Arabs. These vile metals are not the

objects of our ambition; we content ourselves with the

simple productions of the earth. Let us destroy these

cities; let us bury in their ruins those pernicious trea­

sures; and when the avarice of our foes shall be desti­

tute of temptation, perhaps they will cease to disturb the

tranquillity of a warlike people." The proposal was

accepted with unanimous applause. From Tangier to

Tripoli the buildings, or at least the fortifications, were

demolished, the fruit-trees were cut down, the means of

subsistence were extirpated, a fertile and populous garden

was changed into a desert, and the historians of a more

recent period could discern the frequent traces of the

prosperity and devastation of their ancestors. Such is

the tale of the modern Arabians. Yet I strongly suspect

that their ignorance of antiquity, the love of the mar­

vellous, and the fashion of extolling the philosophy of

barbarians, has induced them to describe, as one volun­

tary act, the calamities of three hundred years, since the

first fury of the Donatists and Vandals. In the progress

of the revolt, Cahina had most probably contributed her

share of destruction; and the alarm of universal ruin

might terrify and alienate the cities that had reluctantly

