CHAP. L. 351

of the Mussulman empire, allowed an ample scope for

every bold and artful impostor, who claimed affinity

with the holy seed; the sceptre of the Almohades in

Spain and Africa, of the Fatimites in Egypt and Syria,1

of the sultans of Yemen, and of the sophis of Persia,"

has been consecrated by this vague and ambiguous title.

Under their reigns it might be dangerous to dispute the

legitimacy of their birth; and one of fthe Fatimite ca­

liphs silenced an indiscreet question, by drawing his

scimitar. This (said Moez) is my pedigree; and these

(casting a handful of gold to his soldiers), and these are

my kindred and my children. In the various conditions

of princes, or doctors, or nobles, or merchants, or beg­

gars, a swarm of the genuine or fictitious descendants

of Mahomet and Al i is honoured with the appellation of

sheiks, or sherifs, or emirs. In the Ottoman empire

they are distinguished by a green turban, receive a

stipend from the treasury, are judged only by their chief,

and, however debased by fortune or character, still as­

sert the proud pre-eminence of their birth. A family

of three hundred persons, the pure and orthodox branch

of the caliph Hassan, is preserved without taint or sus­

picion in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, and still

retains, after the revolutions of twelve centuries, the cus­

tody of the temple and the sovereignty of their native

land. The fame and merit of Mahomet would ennoble

a plebeian race, and the ancient blood of the Koreish

transcends the recent majesty of the kings of the earth."

1D'Horbelot, p. 32.1. The enemies of the Fatimites disgraced them by a Jew­

ish origin. Yet they accurately deduced their genealogy from Jaafar, the sixth

Imam; and the impartial Abulfeda allows (Annal. Moslem, p. 230.) that they

were owned by many, qui absque controversi fLgenuini snnt Alidarum, homine
pro-

paginum su:c gentis exacte callentes. He quotes eome lines from the celebrated

Skenfar Rhadi,—Egone humilitatem induam in terris hostium? (I suspect him to

be an Edrissite of Sicily) cum in .lEgypto sit Chalifa de gente Alii, quocum
ego

communem habeo patrem ct vindicern.

a The kings of Persia of the last dynasty are descended from Sheik Sefi, a
saint

of the fourteenth century and through him from Moussa Cassem, the son of
Hosein,

the son of All. (Clearms, p. 957. Chardin, torn. 3. p. S88.) But I cannot
trace

the intermediate degrees in any genuine or fabulous pedigree. If they were
truly

Fatunitfs, they might draw their origin from the princes of Mazanderan, who

reigned in the ninth century. (d'Herbelot, p. 96.)

b The present state of the family of Mahomet and Ali is most accurately de­

