CHAP. XLVII. 49

has been computed that one hundred thousand Roman

subjects were extirpated in the Samaritan war," which

converted the once fruitful province into a desolate and

smoking wilderness. But in the creed of Justinian,

the guilt of murder could not be applied to the slaugh­

ter of unbelievers; and he piously laboured to establish

with fire and sword the unity of the Christian faith/

Hi s ortho- With these sentiments, it was incumbent on

ito*?- him, at least, to be always in the right. In the

first years of his administration, he signalized his zeal as

the disciple and patron of orthodoxy: the reconciliation

of the Greeks and Latins established the tome of St. Leo

as the creed of the emperor and the empire; the Nesto-

rians and Eutychians were exposed, on either side, to

the double edge, of persecution; and the four synods of

Nice, Constantinople, Ephesus, and Chalcedon, were

ratified by the code of a Catholic lawgiver.2 But while

Justinian strove to maintain the uniformity of faith and

worship, his wife Theodora, whose vices were not in­

compatible with devotion, had listened to the Monophy-

site teachers; and the open or clandestine enemies of

the church revived and multiplied at the smile of their

gracious patroness. The capital, the palace, the nuptial

bed, were torn by spiritual discord: yet so doubtful

was the sincerity of the royal consorts, that their seem­

ing disagreement was imputed by many to a secret and

mischievous confederacy against the religion and hap­

piness of their people." The famous dispute of the

* Procop. Anecdot. c. 11. Theophan. Chron. p. 152. John Malala, Chron. torn-  
2. p. 62. I remember an observation, half philosophical, half superstitious,
that

the province which had been ruined by the bigotry of Justinian, was the same

through which the Mahometans penetrated into the empire.

1 The expression of Procopius is remarkable: ou yap ot I)OXII ifwo; adfinrotv
itvaf,

uf j* ftx Tuf OUTOU Jo£»; °l TiXit/r-wrfif Tvxptti WTi;. Anecdot. c. 13.

1 See the Chronicle of Victor, p. 328, and the original evidence of the laws
of

Justinian. During the first years ofhis reign, Baronius himself is in extreme
good

I.n int.in- with the emperor, who courted the popes, till he got them into'
his power.

a Procopius, Anecdot. c. 13. Evagrius, lib. 4. c. 10. If the ecclesiastical
never

read the sacred historian, their common suspicion proves at least the genera]

hatred.

VOL. VI. E

