CHAP. L. 317

ship into implacable hatred, with which he pursued that

unfortunate people to the last moment of his life; and

in the double character of an apostle and a conqueror,

his persecution was extended to both worlds.11 The

Kainoka dwelt at Medina under the protection of the

city: he seized the occasion of an accidental tumult, and

summoned them to embrace his religion, or contend with

him in battle. Alas (replied the trembling Jews), we

are ignorant of the use of arms, but we persevere in the

faith and worship of our fathers; why wilt thou reduce

us to the necessity of a just defence? The unequal conflict

was terminated in fifteen days; and it was with extreme

reluctance that Mahomet yielded to the importunity of

his allies, and consented to spare the lives of the cap­

tives. But their riches were confiscated, their arms

became more effectual in the hands of the Mussulmans;

and a wretched colony of seven hundred exiles was

driven with their wives and children to implore a refuge

on the confines of Syria. The Nadharites were more

guilty, since they conspired in a friendly interview to

assassinate the prophet. He besieged their castle three

miles from Medina, but their resolute defence obtained

an honourable capitulation; and the garrison, sounding

their trumpets and beating their drums, was permitted

to depart with the honours of war. The Jews had ex­

cited and joined the war of the Koreish: no sooner had

the nations retired from the ditch, than Mahomet, with­

out laying aside his armour, marched on the same day

to extirpate the hostile race of the children of Koraidha.

After a resistance of twenty-five days, they surrendered

at discretion. They trusted to the intercessipn of their

old allies of Medina: they could not be ignorant that

fanaticism obliterates the feelings of humanity. A ve­

nerable elder, to whose judgment they. appealed, pro­

nounced the sentence of their death: seven hundred

"The ware of Mahomet against the Jewish tribes, of Kainoka, the Nadhirites,

Koraidha, and Chaibar, are related by Abolfeda(p. 61. 71. 77. 87, &c.) and
Gag.

nier. (torn. 9. 61—65.107—114. 139—148. 268—294.)

