244 ROMAN EMPIRE.

visit was a scene of tumult and bloodshed.0 A faint

remembrance of their ancestors still tormented the

Romans; and they beheld with pious indignation the

succession of Saxons, Franks, Swabians, and Bohemi­

ans, who usurped the purple and prerogatives of the

Caesars.

There is nothing perhaps more advere to na-

domof ture and reason, than to hold in obedience re-

A.l5'.774 mote countries and foreign nations, in opposi-

—1«50. tion {0 their inclination and interest. A torrent

of barbarians may pass over the earth, but an extensive

empire must be supported by a refined system of po­

licy and oppression; in the centre, an absolute power,

prompt in action, and rich in resources; a swift and

easy communication with the extreme parts: fortifi­

cations to check the first effort of rebellion: a regular

administration to protect and punish; and a well dis­

ciplined army to inspire fear, without provoking dis­

content and despair. Far different was the situation

of the German Caesars, who were ambitious to enslave

the kingdom of Italy. Their patrimonial estates were

stretched along the Rhine, or scattered in the pro­

vinces; but this ample domain was alienated by the im­

prudence or distress of successive princes; and their

revenue, from minute and vexatious prerogative, was

scarcely sufficient for the maintenance of their house­

hold. Their troops were formed by the legal or vo­

luntary service of their feudal vassals, who passed the

Alps with reluctance, assumed the licence of rapine

and disorder, and capriciously deserted before the end

of the campaign. Whole armies were swept away by

the pestilential influence of the climate: the survivors

brought back the bones of their princes and nobles/

e In a quarrel at the coronation of Conrad II. Muratori takes leave to observe

—doveano ben essere allora, indisciplinati, Barbario, beaiali i Tedeschi.
Annal.

.torn. 8. p. 368.

* After boiling away the flesh. The caldrons for that purpose were a necessary  
piece of travelling furniture; and a German who was using it for bis brother,
pro­

mised it to a friend, after it should have been employed for himself.
(Schmidt,

