CHAP. LH. 476

which they had inflicted on the empire, by the defeat

and slaughter of twenty-two thousand Asiatics. A report

was dexterously scattered, that the Franks, the unknown

nations of the Latin world, were arming by sea and land,

in the defence of the Christian cause, and their formi­

dable aid was expected with far different sensations in

Failure the camp and city. At length, after a siege of

tof the thirteen months,0 the hopeless Moslemah re-

trea

ceived from the caliph the welcome permission

of retreat. The march of the Arabian cavalry over the

Hellespont, and through the provinces of Asia, was exe­

cuted without delay or molestation; but an army of their

brethren had been cut in pieces on the side of Bithynia,

and the remains of the fleet were so repeatedly damaged

by tempest and fire, that only five galleys entered the

port of Alexandria to relate the tale of their various and

almost incredible disasters.11

invention In the two sieges, the deliverance of Constan-

thedGreekf tinople may be chiefly ascribed to the novelty, the

*"• terrors, and the real efficacy, of the Greek fire?  
The important secret of compounding and directing this

artificial flame was imparted by Callinicus, a native of

Heliopolis in Syria, who deserted from the service of the

caliph to that of the emperor/ The skill of a chemist

and engineer was equivalent to the succour of fleets and

0 Both Nicephorus and Theophanes agree, that the siege of Constantinople was

now raised^ the fifteenth of August: (A. D. ?18.)butasthe former, our best
witness,

affirms that it continued thirteen months, the latter must be mistaken in
supposing

that it began on the same day of the preceding year. I do not find that Pagi
has

remarked this inconsistency.

P In the second siege of Constantinople, I have followed Nicephorus, (Brev.

p. 33 — 36.) Theophanes, (Chronograph, p. 324 — 334.) Cedrenus, (Compend,

p. 449 — 152.) Zonaras, (torn. 2. p. 98—102.) Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 88.)

Abulfeda, ( Annal. Moslem, p. 126.) and Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 130.) the
most

satisfactory of the Arabs.

1 Our sure and indefatigable guide in the middle ages and Byzantine history,

Charlcs du Fresno du Cange, has treated in several places of the Greek fire,
and his

collections leave few gleanings behind. See particularly Glossar. Med. et
Inlim.

Griecitat. p. 1275. sub voce Hvp Qakarriov, ifyfey. Glossar. Med. et Tnfim,
LatinitaL

ignis Grtecta. Observations sur Villehardouin, p. 305, 306. Observations sur

Joinville, p. 71,73.

'Theophanes styles him af^iri^rm. (p. 395.) Cedrenus (p. 437.) brings this

artist (from the rums of) Heliopolis in Egypt; and chemistry was indeed the
pecu­

liar science of the Egyptians.

