286 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the Jews of Mecca or Medina adored Ezra as the son

of God.' But the children of Israel had ceased to be

a people; and the religions of the world were guilty,

at least in the eyes of the prophet, of giving sons, or

daughters, or companions, to the supreme God. In the

rude idolatry of the Arabs, the crime is manifest and

audacious: the Sabians are poorly excused by the pre­

eminence of the first planet, or intelligence in their ce­

lestial hierarchy; and in the Magian system the conflict

of the two principles betrays the imperfection of the

conqueror. The Christians of the seventh century had

insensibly relapsed into a semblance of Paganism; their

public and private vows were addressed to the relics

and images that disgraced the temples of the east: the

throne of the Almighty was darkened by a cloud of

martyrs, and saints, and angels, the objects of popular

veneration; and the Collyridian heretics who flourished

in the fruitful soil of Arabia, invested the Virgin Mary

with the name and honours of a goddess/ The myste­

ries of the Trinity and Incarnation appear to contradict

the principle of the divine unity. In their obvious

sense, they introduce three equal deities, and transform

the man Jesus into the substance of the son of God :•

an orthodox commentary will satisfy only a believing

mind: intemperate curiosity and zeal had torn the veil

of the sanctuary; and each of the oriental sects was

eager to confess that all, except themselves, deserved

c Koran, c. 9. p. 153. Al Beidawi, and the other commentators quoted by

Sale, adhere to the charge; but I do not understand that it is coloured by the
most

obscure or absurd tradition of the Talmudists.

'Iloltingi.r, Hist. Orient, p. 225—228. The Collyridian heresy was carried

from Thrace to Arabia by some women, and the name was borrowed from the

«Xxu5-i;, or cake, which they offered to the goddess. This example, that of
Urryl-

lus bishop of Bostra, (Euseb. Hist. Eccles. lib. 6. c. 33.) and several
others, may

excuse the reproach, Arabia hsreeewn ferax.

f The three gods in the Koran (c. 4. p. 81. c. 5. p. 92.) are obviously
directed

against our Catholic mystery; but the Arabic commentators understand them of
the

father, the Son, and the Virgin Mary, an heretical trinity, maintained, as it
is

eaid, by some barbarians at the council of Nice. (Eutych. Annal. torn. 1. p.
440.)

But the existence of the Marianitii is denied by tin- candid Beausobre, (Hist,
de

Manicheisme.tom. l.p. 532.)andhe derives the mistake from the word Rtush, the

Holy Ghost, which in some oriental tongues is of the feminine gender, and U

figuratively styled the mother of Christ in the Gospel of the Nazarenes.

