<58 ROMAN EMPIRE.

gifts and Syriac missionaries could be obtained front

the patriarch of Babylon. Since the expulsion of the

Portuguese, the Nestorian creed is freely professed on

the coast of Malabar. The trading companies of Hol­

land and England are the friends of toleration; but if

oppression be less mortifying than contempt, the Chris­

tians of St. Thomas hare reason to complain of the cold

and silent indifference of their brethren of Europe.1

n.TuE II. The history of the Monophysites is less

JACoBITES. copioas and interesting than that of the Nesto^

rians. Under the reigns of Zeno and Anastasius, their

artful leaders surprised the ear of the prince, usurped

the tbtones of the east, and crushed on its native soil

the school of the Syrians. The rule of the Monophysite

faith was defined with exquisite discretion by Severus,

patriarch of Antioch: he condemned, in the style of the

Henoticon, the adverse heresies of Nestorius and Eu-

tyehes, maintained against the latter the reality of the

body of Christ, and constrained the Greeks to allow that

he was a liar who spoke truth.1* But the approximation

of ideas could rwxt abate the vehemence of passion; each

party was the more astonished that their blind antago­

nist could dispute on so trifling a difference; the tyrant

of Syria enforced the belief of his creed, and his reign*

was polluted with the blood of three hundred and fifty

monks, who were slain, not perhaps without provocation

A. 0. MB. or resistance, under the walls of Apamea.1 The

• * Concerning theChristians of St. Thomas, see Assenmnnus, Bibtioth. Orient,
torn.

4. p. 391—407. 435—4M. Geddes's Church History of Malabar, and, above all,

ta Croze, Histoire du Christianisme des Indes, in two vols. 1 2mo. La Hnyp,
1758,.

a learned and agreeable work. They have drawn from the same source, the Por­

tuguese and Italian narratives; and the prejudices of the Jesuits are
sufficiently

corrected by those of the Protestants.

k Our uffifv 4'tv&t XnSnf is the expression of Theodore in his treatise on the
incar­

nation, p. 245. a-17. as he is quoted by La Croze, (Hist, du Christianisme
d'Ethiope

et d'Armenie, p. 35.) who exclaims perhaps too hastily, " Quel pitoyable
raissone-

meat!" Renatidothaa touched' (Hisf. Patriarch. Alex. p. 127—l38.)the oriental

account of Several: and h is authentic creed in ay be found in the epistle of
John the1

Jacobite, patriarch of Antioch, in the tenth century, to his brother Alcanas
of Alex­

andria. (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 132—141.)

'Epist- Archimandritarum et Monachorum Syria Secundze ad Papam Hormis-

tlmn, Coneil. torn. 5, p. 598—603. The courage of St. Si'iius, ut leo
animuMis,

defensive. Qi3aronius, A. D. 513. no. 7^ occ.)

