132 ROMAN EMPIRE.

A. D. 9ii. the ancients. An apartment of the Byzantine

May11' palace was lined with porphyry: it was reserved

for the use of the pregnant empresses; and the royal

birth of their children was expressed by the appel­

lation of porphyrogenite, or born in the purple. Several

of the Roman princes had been blessed with an heir;

but this peculiar surname was first applied to Constan-

tine VII. His life and titular reign were of equal dura­

tion; but of fifty-four years, six had elapsed before his

father's death; and the son of Leo was ever the volun­

tary or reluctant subject of those who oppressed his

weakness or abused his confidence. His uncle Alex­

ander, who had long been invested with the title of

Augustus, was the first colleague and governor of the

young prince: but in a rapid career of vice and folly,

the brother of Leo already emulated the reputation of

Michael; and when he was extinguished by a timely

death, he entertained a project of castrating his nephew,

and leaving the empire to a worthless favourite. The

succeeding years of the minority of Constantine were

occupied by his mother Zoe, and a succession of coun­

cil of seven regents, who pursued their interest, gratified

their passions, abandoned the republic, supplanted each

other, and finally vanished in the presence of a soldier.

From an obscure origin, Romanus Lecapenus had raised

himself to the command of the naval armies; and in the

anarchy of the times, had deserved, or at least had ob­

tained, the national esteem. With a victorious and af­

fectionate fleet, he sailed from the mouth of the Danube

into the harbour of. Constantinople, and was hailed as

the deliverer of the people, and the guardian of the

prince. His supreme office was at first defined by

Romanusi. the new appellation of father of the emperor;

A. ixlug'!' but Romanus soon disdained the subordinate

Dec. 24. powers of a minister, and assumed, with the

titles of Caesar and Augustus, the full independence of

royalty, which he held near five-and-twenty years.

