CHAP. XLVJI. 39

ed to the flames, and his ashes to the wind: and the

deed was inspired by the vision of a pretended angel:

an ambitious monk, who, under the name of Timothy

the Cat,* succeeded to the place and opinions of Dios-

corus. This deadly superstition was inflamed, on either

side, by the principle and the practice of retaliation:

in the pursuit of a metaphysical quarrel, many thou­

sands* were slain, and the Christians of every degree

•were deprived of the substantial enjoyments of social

life, and of the invisible gifts of baptism and the holy

communion. Perhaps an extravagant fable of the times

may conceal an allegorical picture of these fanatics,

who tortured each other, and themselves. Under the

consulship of Venantius and Celer (says a grave bishop),

the people of Alexandria, and all Egypt, were seized with

a strange and diabolical frenzy: great and small, slaves

and freemen, monks and clergy, the natives of the land,

who opposed the synod of Chalcedon, lost their speech

and reason, barked like dogs, and tore with their own

teeth, the Jlesh from their hands and arms.b

The Heno- The disorders of thirty years at length pro-

Zcno °f duced the famous HENOTICON" of the emperor

A.D. 482. Zeno, which in his reign, and in that of Anastasius,

was signed byall the bishopsof the east,under the penalty

of degradation and exile, if they rejected or infringed this

salutary and fundamental law. The clergy may smile or

groan at the presumption of alayman who defines the arti­

cles of faith: yet if he stoops to the humiliating task, his

mind is less infected by prejudice or interest, and the au-

, from Ins nocturnal expeditions. In darkness and disguise he crept

roond the cells of the monastery, and whispered the revelation to his
slumbering

brethren. (Theodcr. Lector, lib. 1.)

* C-JVCK; ft T:?./xnflrvo( iuv£fou( al/uarw tfXufllf jUOXlff&HTdl fJtr, fiuvtH ruv yn aXXa JUJ  
aurov Tar acp». Such is the hyperbolic language of the Henoticon. •

b See the Chronicle of Victor Tunnensis, in the Lectiones Antiquae of
Canisius,

repnblished by Basnage, torn. 1. p. 326.

c The Henoticon is transcribed by Evagrius, (lib. 3. c. 13.) and translated by

Liberatus. (Brev. c. 18.) Pagi (Critica, torn. 2. p. 414.) and Asseman
(Bibliot.

Orient, torn. 1. p. 343.) are satisfied that it is free from heresy; but
Petaviua

( Uopnat. Theolog. torn. 5. lib. 1. c. 13. p. 40.) most unaccountably affirms
Chal-

cedonensem ascivit. An adversary would prove that he had never read the

Henoticou.

