434 ROMAN EMPIRE.

mand and failed in the attempt, was led about as ^prisoner

in the camp of the Arabian general. The insurgents had

trusted to his discontent and revenge; he disdained their

offers and revealed their designs. In the hour of danger,

the grateful Akbah unlocked his fetters, and advised him

to retire; he chose to die under the banner of his rival.

Embracing as friends and martyrs, they unsheathed their

scimitars, broke their scabbards, and maintained an ob­

stinate combat till they fell by each other's side on the

last of their slaughtered countrymen. The third general

or governor of Africa, Zubeir, avenged and encountered

the fate of his predecessor. He vanquished the natives

in many battles; he was overthrown by a powerful army,

which Constantinople had sent to the relief of Carthage.

Founda- fr ^ac^ keen the frequent practice of the Moor-

tion of ish tribes to join the invaders, to share the plun-

Cairoan, PI/..I » i i .

A. D.ero der, to protess the faith, and to revolt to their sa-

~ 67a' vage state of independence and idolatry, on the

first retreat or misfortune of the Moslems. The prudence

of Akbah had proposed to found an Arabian colony in

the heart of Africa; a citadel that might curb the levity

of the barbarians, a place of refuge to secure, against the

accidents of war, the wealth and the families of the Sa­

racens. With this view, and under the modest title of

the station of a caravan, he planted this colony in the

fiftieth year of the Hegira. In its present decay, Cai-

roanq still holds the second rank in the kingdom of Tunis,

from which it is distant about fifty miles to the south;'

its inland situation, twelve miles westward of the sea,

has protected the city from the Greek and Sicilian fleets.

When the wild beasts and serpents were extirpated, when

i The foundation of Cairoan is mentioned by Ockley; (Hist, of the Saracens,

vol. 2. p. 189. 130.) and the situation, mosch, &c. of the city, are described
by Leo

Africanns, (fol. 75.) Marmol,(torn. 2. p. flSS.) and Shaw. (p. 115.)

'A portentous, though frequent, mistake has been the confounding, from 3
slight

similitude of name, the Cyrene of the Greeks, and the Cairoan of the Arabs,
two

cities which are separated by an interval of a thousand miles along the sea-
coast

The great ThUanns has not escaped this fault, the less excusable, as it is
connected

with a formal and elaborate description of Africa. (Historiar. lib. 7. c. 9.
in torn. 1.

p. ?40. edit. Buckley.)

