358 ROMAN EMPIRE.

skill and perseverance of their general prevailed: their

defeat was avenged by the slaughter of ten thousand in­

fidels; and Moseilama himself was pierced by an /Ethi­

opian slave with the same javelin which had mortally

wounded the uncle of Mahomet. The various rebels of

Arabia, without a chief or cause, were speedily sup­

pressed by the power and discipline of the rising mo­

narchy; and the whole nation again professed, and more

steadfastly held, the religion of the Koran. The ambition

of the caliphs provided an immediate exercise for the

restless spirit of the Saracens; their valour was united

in the prosecution of a holy war; and their enthusiasm

was equally confirmed by opposition and victory,

character From the rapid conquests of the Saracens a

presumption will naturally arise, that the first

caliphs commanded in person the armies of the

faithful, and sought the crown of martyrdom in the fore­

most ranks of the battle. The courage of Abubeker,'1

Omar,e and Othman/ had indeed been tried in the per­

secution and wars of the prophet; and the personal as­

surance of paradise must have taught them to despise

the pleasures and dangers of the present world. But

they ascended the throne in a venerable or mature age,

and esteemed the domestic cares of religion and justice

the most important duties of a sovereign. Except the

presence of Omar at the siege of Jerusalem, the longest

expeditions were the frequent pilgrimage from Medina

to Mecca; and they calmly received the tidings of victory

as they prayed or preached before the sepulchre of the

prophet. The austere and frugal measure of their lives

was the effect of virtue or habit, and the pride of their

simplicity insulted the vain magnificence of the king*

d His reign in Eutychius, torn. 2. p. 251. Elmacin, p. 18. Abulpharagiiu, p-

108. Abulfeda, p. 60. D'Herbelot, p. 58.

- His reign in Eutychius, p. 264. Elmacin, p. 24. Abulpharagius, p. 110. Abal-  
feda, p. 66. D'Herbelot, p. 686.

< His reign in Eutychius, p. 323. Elmacin, p. 36. Abolpharagins, p. 115. Abul­

feda, p. 75. D'Herbelot, p. 695.

