478 ROMAN EMPIRE.

composition, of the Greek fire. It was at length either

discovered or stolen by the Mahometans; and, in the

holy wars of Syria and Egypt, they retorted an invention,

contrived against themselves, on the heads of the Chris­

tians. A knight, who despised the swords and lances of

the Saracens, relates, with heartfelt sincerity, his own

fears, and those of his companions, at the sight and sound

of the mischievous engine that discharged a torrent of

the Greek fire, the feu G.regeois, as it sty led by the more

early of the French writers. It came flying through the

air, says Joinville/ like a winged long-tailed dragon,

about the thickness of a hogshead, without the report of

thunder, and the velocity of lightning; and the darkness

of the night was dispelled by this deadly illumination.

The use of the Greek, or, as it might now be called, the

Saracen fire, was continued to the middle of the four­

teenth century," when the scientific, or casual compound

of nitre, sulphur, and charcoal, effected a new revolution

in the art of war, and the history of mankind."

invasion Constantinople and the Greek fire might ex-

elude the Arabs from the eastern entrance of

Europe; but in the west, on the side of the Py-

rennees, the provinces of Gaul were threatened

and invaded by the conquerors of Spain.b The decline

> Histoire de St. Louis, p. 39. Paris, 1688, p. 44. Paris, de I'lmprimerie

Royale, 1761. The former of these editions is precious for the observations of
Da-

cange; the latterforthe pure and original text of Joinville. Wemosthave
recourse

to that text to discover, that the fen Gregeois was shot with a pile or
javelin, from

an engine that acted like a sling.

* The vanity, orenvy, of shakmg the established property of Fame, has tempted  
some moderns to carry gunpowder above the fourteenth, (see sir William Temple,

Datens, &c.) and the Greek fire above the seventh century; (see the Saloste da
Pre­

sident dos Brasses, torn. 2. p. 381.) but their evidence, which precedes the
vulgar

era of the invention, is seldom clear or satisfactory, and subsequent writers
may be

suspected of fraud or credulity. In the earliest sieges, some combustibles of
oil and

sulphur have been used, and the Greek fire has some affinities with gunpowder
both

in nature and effects: for the antiquity of the first, a passage of Procopius;
(de

Bell. Goth. lib. 4. c. 11.) for that of the second, some facts in the Arabic
history of

Spain, (A. D. 1349, 1312,1332. Bibliot . Arab. Hisp. torn. 2. p. 6—8.) are the
most

difficult to elude.

m That extraordinary man. Friar Bacon, reveals two of the ingredients,
sallpeoe

and sulphur, and conceals the third in a sentence of mysterious gibberish, as
if he

dreaded the consequences of his own discovery. (Biographia Britannica, vol.
l.p.

430. new edition.)

'For the invasion of France, and the defeat of the Arabs by Charles Martel,
see

the Historia Arabum (... 11—14.) of Roderic Ximenes, archbishop of Toledo, who

