500 ROMAN EMPIRE.

great circle of the earth, and determined at twenty-four

thousand miles the entire circumference of our globe.p

From the reign of the Abbassides to that of the grand­

children of Tamerlane, the stars, without the aid of

glasses, were diligently observed; and the astronomical

tables'1 of Bagdad, Spain, and Samarcand, correct some

minute errors, without daring to renounce the hypothesis

of Ptolemy, without advancing a step towards the disco­

very of the solar system. In the eastern courts, the

truths of science could be recommended only by ig­

norance and folly, and the astronomer would have been

disregarded, had he not debased his wisdom or honesty

by the vain predictions of astrology/ But in the science

of medicine, the Arabians have been deservedly ap­

plauded. The names of Mesua and Geber, of Razis and

Avicenna, are ranked with the Grecian masters; in the

city of Bagdad, eight hundred and sixty physicians were

licensed to exercise their lucrative profession ;s in Spain,

the life of the Catholic princes was intrusted to the skill

of the Saracens,' and the school of Salerno, their legiti­

mate offspring revived in Italy and Europe the precepts

of the healing art." The success of each professor must

have beeri influenced by personal and accidental causes;

i' Abulfeda (Annal. Moslem, p. 210,311. vrrs Reiske) describes this operation

according to 1 bn Challecan, and the best historians. This degree most
accurately

contains two hundred thousand royal or Hashemite cubits, which Arabia had de­

rived from the sacred and legal practice both of Palestine and Egypt. This

ancient cubit is repeated four hundred times in each bans of the great
pyramid,

and seems to indicate the primitive and universal measures of the east. See
the

Metrologie of the laborious M. Paucton, p. 101—105.

i See the Astronomical Tables of Ulugh Begh, with the preface of Dr. Hyde,

in the first volume of Ms Syntagma Dissertationum, Oxon. 1767.

'The truth of astrology was allowed by Albumazar, and the best of the Arabian

astronomers, who drew their most certain predictions, not from Venus and Mer­

cury, but from Jupiter and the sun. (Abulpharag. Dynast, p. 161—163.) For

the state and science of the Persian astronomers, see Chardin. (Voyages en
Perse,

torn. 3. p. 16«—203.)

'Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 1. p. 438. The original relates a pleasant

tale, of an ignorant but harmless practitioner.

'In the year 956, Sancho the Fat, king of Leon, was cured by the physicians

of Cordova. (Mariana, lib. 1. c. 7. torn. 1. p. 318.)

"The School of Salerno, and the introduction of the Arabian sciences into
Italy,

are discussed with learning and judgment by Muratori (Antiquat. Italiie Medii

.Kvi. torn. 3. p. 932—940.) and Giannone. (Istoria Civili di Napoli, torn. 3.

p. 119—127.)

