CHAP. XLVIII. 145

wished to prolong their dominion, they persuaded the

aged princess to nominate for her successor Michael VI.

Michael vi Tne surname of Stratioticus declares his mili-

Stratio- taiy profession; but the crazy and decrepit ve-

A.D'.io56, teran could only see with the eyes, and exe-

ueust 'cute with the hands, of his ministers. Whilst

he ascended the throne, Theodora sunk into the grave;

the last of the Macedonian or Basilian dynasty. I have

hastily reviewed, and gladly dismiss, this shameful and

destructive period of Jwenty-eight years, in which the

Greeks, degraded below the common level of servitude,

were transferred like a herd of cattle by the choice or

caprice of two impotent females.

Isaac i. From this night of slavery, a ray of freedom,

A?D?io57',or at least of spirit, begins to emerge; the

August si. Greeks either preserved or revived the use of

surnames, which perpetuate the fame of hereditary vir­

tue; and we now discern the rise, succession, and al­

liance, of the last dynasties of Constantinople and Tre-

bizond. The Comneni, who upheld for awhile the fate

of the sinking empire, assumed the honour of a Roman

origin: but the family had been long since transported

from Italy to Asia. Their patrimonial estate was situate

in the district of Castamona, in the neighbourhood of

the Euxine; and one of their chiefs, who had already

entered the paths of ambition, revisited with affection,

perhaps with regret, the modest though honourable

dwelling of his fathers. The first of their line was the

illustrious Manuel, who, in the reign of the second

Basil, contributed by war and treaty to appease the

troubles of the east: he left, in a tender age, two sons,

Isaac and John, whom, with the consciousness of desert,

he bequeathed to the gratitude and favour, of his so­

vereign. The noble youths were carefully trained in

the learning of the monastery, the arts of the palace,

and the exercises of the camp; and from the domestic

service of the guards, they were rapidly promoted to the

VOL. VI. L

