32 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of debate: the same spiritual and carnal weapons were

again drawn from the arsenals of Egypt; the Asiatic ve­

terans, a band of archers, served under the orders of Dios-

corus; and the more formidable monks, whose minds

were inaccessible to reason or mercy, besieged the doors

of the cathedral. The general, and, as it should seem,

the unconstrained voice of the fathers, accepted the faith

and even the anathemas of Cyril; and the heresy of the

two natures was formally condemned in the persons and

writings of the most learned orientals. May those who

divide Christ be divided with the sword; may they be

hewn in pieces, may they be burnt alive.' were the cha­

ritable wishes of a Christian synod.0 The innocence and

sanctity of Eutyches were acknowledged without hesita­

tion: but the prelates, more especially those of Thrace

and Asia, were unwilling to depose their patriarch for

the use or even the abuse of this lawful jurisdiction.

They embraced the knees of Dioscorus, as he stood with

a threatening aspect on the footstool of his throne, and

conjured him to forgive the offences, and to respect

the dignity, of his brother. Do you mean to raise a

sedition? exclaimed the relentless tyrant. Where arethe

officers? At these words a furious multitude of monks

and soldiers, with staves, and swords, and chains, burst

into the church; the trembling bishops hid themselves

behind the altar, or under the benches, and as they were

not inspired with the zeal of martyrdom, they succes­

sively subscribed a blank paper, which was afterward

filled with the condemnation of the Byzantine pontiff.

Flavian was instantly delivered to the wild beasts of this

spiritual amphitheatre: the monks were stimulated by

.the voice and example of Barsumas to avenge the injuries

of Christ: it is said that the patriarch of Alexandria re­

viled, and buffeted, and kicked, and trampled his brother

0 H ay.!'- fan^at unr a;:;, xaiwov EwriSiw, tires fw xaq ouro; lit tia ytnttu,
»;

tptpn /uipwd* ... it TI; > tj'fi tuo eaaSn/Mt. At the request of Dioscorus,
those

who were not able to roar (Cono-ai), stretched out their hands. At Chalcedon,
the

orientals disclaimed these acclamations; but the Egyptians more consistently
de­

clared Tuura *!,,, TOTE fiTtiiiv »ii n/i Xf>o,ui». (('until, torn, 4. p.
101?.)

