424 ROMAN EMPIRE.

through the realm of Egypt: the folds are overspread by

the salutary flood; and the. villages communicate with

each other in their painted barks. The retreat of the in­

undation deposits a fertilizing mud for the reception of the

various seeds; the crowds of husbandmen who blacken the

land may be compared to a swarm of industrious ants;

and their native indolence is quickened by the lash of the

taskmaster, and the promise of the flowers and fruits of

a plentiful increase. Their hope is seldom deceived; but

the riches which they extract from the wheat, the barley,

and the rice, the legumes, the fruit-trees, and the cattle, are

unequally shared between those who labour and those who

possess. According to the vicissitudes of the seasons, the

face of the country is adorned with a silver wave, a verdant

emerald, and the deep yellow of a golden harvest.0 Yet

this beneficial order is sometimes interrupted; and the

long delay and sudden swell of the river in the first year

of the conquest might afford some colour to an edifying

fable. It is said, that the annual sacrifice of a virginp

had been interdicted by the piety of Omar; and that the

Nile lay sullen and inactive in his shallow bed, till the

mandate of the caliph was cast into the obedient stream,

which rose in a single night to the height of sixteen

cubits. The admiration of the Arabs for their new con­

quest encouraged the licence of their romantic spirit. We

may read, in the gravest authors, that Egypt was crowded

with twenty thousand cities or villages :q that, exclusive

0 In a twenty years' residence at Cairo, tin- consul Maillet had contemplated

that varying scene, the Nile: (lettre 2, particularly p. 70. 75.) the
fertility of the

land, (lettre 9.) From a college at Cambridge, the poetic eye of Gray had sm

the same objects with a keener glance.—

What wonder in the sultry climes that spread,

Where Nile, redundant o'er his summer bed,

From his broad bosom life and verdure flings,

And broods o'er Egypt with his wat'ry wings;

If with advent'rous oar, and ready sail,

The dusky people drive before the gale:

Or on frail floats to neighbouring cities ride,

That rise and glitter o'er the ambient tide.

(Mason's Works, and Memoirs of Gray, p. 199, 200.)

i' Murtadi, p. 164—167. The reader will not easily credit a human sacrifice

under the Christian emperors, or a miracle of the successors of Mahomet.

1 Maillet, Description de 1'Egypte, p. 22. He mentions this number as th^

