236 ROMAN EMPIRE.

informed them that he was only a servant, the constable,

or master of the horse of the emperor. The same mis­

take, and the same answer, were repeated in the apart­

ments of the count palatine, the steward, and the cham­

berlain; and their impatience was gradually heightened,

till the doors of the presence-chamber were thrown open,

and they beheld the genuine monarch, on his throne,

enriched with the foreign luxury which he despised,

and encircled with the love and reverence of his victo­

rious chiefs. A treaty of peace and alliance was con­

cluded between the two empires, and the limits of the

east and west were defined by the right of present pos­

session. But the Greeks'1 soon forgot this humiliating

equality, or remembered it only to hate the barbarians

by whom it was extorted. During the short union of

virtue and power, they respectfully saluted the august

Charlemagne with the acclamations of basileus, and

emperor of the Romans. As soon as these qualities

were separated in the person of his pious son, the By­

zantine letters were inscribed, To the king, or, as he

styles himself, the emperor of the Franks and Lombards.

When both power and virtue were extinct, they de­

spoiled Lewis II. of his hereditary title, and, with the

barbarous appellation of rex or rega, degraded him

among the crowd of Latin princes. His reply1 is ex­

pressive of his weakness: he proves, with some learning,

that both in sacred and profane history, the name of

king is synonymous with the Greek word basileus: if,

at Constantinople, it were assumed in a more exclusive

and imperial sense, he claims from his ancestors, and

from the pope, a just participation of the honours of the

Roman purple. The same controversy was revived in

b Compare, in the original texts collected by Pagi, (torn. 3. A. D, 812. no.
7.

A. D. 824. no. 10, &c.) the contrast of Charlemagne and his son: to the former
the

ambassadors of Michael Cwho were indeed disavowed), more suo, id est lingua,

Graci, laudes dixerunt, imperatorem eum et BiwiXu appellantes; to the latter,

vocato imperatori Franeorvm, &c.

'See the epistle in Paralipoiuena, of the anonymous writer of Salerno, (Script

.

Ital. torn. t. pars 2. p. 243—254. c. 93—107.) whom Baronius (A. D. 871. no.

51—71.) mistook for Erchempert, when he transcribed it in his Annals.

