284 ROMAN EMPIRE.

reflect to our mind the minds of sages and heroes. Yet

the book of nature and of man was open to his view;

and some fancy has been indulged in the political and

philosophical observations which are ascribed to the

Arabian traveller? He compares the nations and the

religions of the earth; discovers the weakness of the

Persian and Roman monarchies; beholds, with pity

and indignation, the degeneracy of the times; and re­

solves to unite, under one God and one king, the invin­

cible spirit and primitive virtues of the Arabs. Our

more accurate inquiry will suggest, that instead of vi­

siting the courts, the camps, the temples, of the east,

the two journies of Mahomet into Syria were confined

to the fairs of Bostra and Damascus; that he was only

thirteen years of age when he accompanied the caravan

of his uncle, and that his duty compelled him to return

as soon as he had disposed of the merchandize of Ca-

dijah. In these hasty and superficial excursions, the

eye of genius might discern some objects invisible to

his grosser companions; some seeds of knowledge

might be cast upon a fruitful soil: but his ignorance of

the Syriac language must have checked his curiosity;

and I cannot perceive in the life or writings of Maho­

met, that his prospect was far extended beyond the li­

mits of the Arabian world. From every region of that

solitary world, the pilgrims of Mecca were annually

assembled, by the calls of devotion and commerce: in

the free concourse of multitudes, a simple citizen, in

his native tongue, might study the political state and

character of the tribes, the theory and practice of the

Jews and Christians. Some useful strangers might be

tempted or forced, to implore the rights of hospitality;

and the enemies of Mahomet have named the Jew, the

b The count de Boulainvilliers (Vie de Mahomed, p. 202—228.) leads his Ara­

bian pupil, like the Telemachus of Fenelou, or the Cyrus of Ramsay. His
journey

to the court of Persia is probably a fiction; nor can 1 trace the origin of
his ex­

clamation, " Les Grccs sont pourtant dee hommes." The two Syrian journeys are

expressed by almort all the Arabian writers, both Mahometans and Christians.

(Gagnier, ad Abulfed. p. 10.)

