224 ROMAN EMPIRE.

in discipline, or in arms. The science of war has been

lost and revived with the arts of peace; but his campaigns

are not illustrated by any siege or battle of singular diffi­

culty or success; and he might behold, with envy, the

Saracen trophies of his grandfather. After his Spanish

expedition, his rear-guard was defeated in the Pyrenean

mountains; and the soldiers, whose situation was irre­

trievable, and whose valour was useless, might accuse,

with their last breath, the want of skill or caution of their

general.* I touch with reverence the laws of Charle­

magne, so highly applauded by a respectable judge. They

compose not a system, but a series, of occasional and mi­

nute edicts, for the correction of abuses, the reformation

of manners, the economy of his farms, the care of his

poultry, and even the sale of his eggs. He wished to

improve the laws and the character of the Franks; and

his attempts, however feeble and imperfect, are deserving

of praise: the inveterate evils of the times were suspend­

ed or mollified by his government;11 but in his institu­

tions I can seldom discover the general views and the im­

mortal spirit of a legislator, who survives himself for the

benefit of posterity. The union and stability of his em­

pire depended on the life of a single man; he imitated

the dangerous practice of dividing his kingdoms among

his sons; and, after his numerous diets, the whole con­

stitution was left to fluctuate between the disorders of

anarchy and despotism. His esteem for the piety and

knowledge of the clergy tempted him to intrust that as­

piring order with temporal dominion and civil jurisdic­

tion; and his son Lewis, when he was stripped and de­

graded by the bishops, might accuse, in some measure,

the imprudence of his father. His laws enforced the im­

position of tithes, because the demons had proclaimed in

( In this action the famous Rutland, Rolando, Orlando, was slain—cum plan-

tos alia. See the truth in Eginhard, (c. 9. p. 51—56.) and the fable in an
inge­

nious Supplement of M. Gaillard. (torn. 3. p. 474.) The Spaniards are too
proud of

a victory which history ascribes to the Gascons, and Romance to the Saracens.

h Yet Schmidt, from the best authorities, represents the interior disorders
and

oppression of his reign. (Hist, des AllemaiuU, torn. t. p. 45—49.)

