290 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the gospel was the way of truth and salvation; but the

Christians insensibly forgot both the laws and the

example of their founder; and Mahomet was instructed

by the Gnostics to accuse the church, as well as the

synagogue, of corrupting the integrity of the sacred

text." The piety of Moses and of Christ rejoiced in

the assurance of a future prophet, more illustrious than

themselves: the evangelic promise of the Paraclete, or

Holy Ghost, was prefigured in the name, and accom­

plished in the person, of Mahomet," the greatest and

last of the apostles of God.

fj,e The communication of ideas requires a simili-

Koran. tude of thought and language; the discourse of

a philosopher would vibrate without effect on the ear of

a peasant; yet how minute is the distance of their un­

derstandings, if it be compared with the contact of an

infinite and a finite mind, with the word of God ex-

pres"sed by the tongue or the pen of a mortal? The in­

spiration of the Hebrew prophets, of the apostles and

evangelists of Christ, might not be incompatible with

the exercise of their reason and memory; and the diver­

sity of their genius is strongly marked in the style of the

Old and New Testament. But Mahomet was content

with a character, more humble, yet more sublime, of a

simple editor; the substance of the Koran/ according

objects est cis similitudo: an expression that may suit with the system of the

Docetes; but the commentators believe (Maracci, torn. 2. p. 113—115. 173,

Sale, p. 42, 43. 79.) that another man, a friend or an enemy, was crucified in
the

likeness of Jesus; a fable which they had read in the gospel of St. Barnabue.

and which had been started as early as the time of Irena.us, by some Ebionite

heretics. (Beausobre, Hist, du Manicheisme, torn. 2. p. 35. Mosheim, de Reb.

Christ, p. 353.)

"This charge is obscurely urged in the Koran: (c. 3. p. 45.) but neither Ma­

homet, nor hisfollowers, are sufficiently versed in languages ami criticism to
give

any weight or colour to their suspicions. Yet the Arians and Nrstoriann contd

relate some stories, and the illiterate prophet might listen to the bold
assertions

of the Manichieans. See Beausobre, torn. 1. p. 291—305.

* Among the prophecies of the Old and New Testament, which are perverted  
by the fraud or ignorance of the Mussulmans, they apply to the prophet the
promise

of the I'<irnrlfte, or Comforter, which had been already usurped by the
Memoirists

and Manichawms; (Beausobre, Hiat. Critique dn Manicheisme, torn. 1. p. 163,

&c.) and the easy change of letters aipixXvni; for «.-.-< JaaXBTO:, affords
the etymology

of the name of Mohammed. (Maracci, torn. 1. part 1. p. 15—28.)

T For the Koran, sec d'Herbelot, p. 85—88. Maracci, torn. 1. in Vit . Moham­

med, p. 3«—+5. Sale, Preliminary Discourse, p. 56—70,

