ROMAN EMPIRE.

The silence and death of the prophet restored

Aimbe- the liberty of the people; and his companions

&S9, convened an assembly to deliberate on the choice

une 7; of ^is successor. The hereditary claim and lofty

spirit of Ali, were offensive to an aristocracy of elders,

desirous of bestowing and resuming the sceptre by a free

and frequent election: the Koreish could never be recon­

ciled to the proud pre-eminence of the line of Hashem;

the ancient discord of the tribes was rekindled; ihe fu­

gitives of Mecca and the auxiliaries of Medina asserted

their respective merits, and the rash proposal of choosing

two independent caliphs would have crushed in their in­

fancy the religion and empire of the Saracens. The tu­

mult was appeased by the disinterested resolution of

Omar, who suddenly renouncing his own pretensions,

stretched forth his hand, and declared himself the first

subject of the mild and venerable Abubeker. The ur­

gency of the moment, and the acquiescence of the people,

might excuse this illegal and precipitate measure; but

Omar himself confessed from the pulpit, that if any Mus­

sulman should hereafter presume to anticipate the suf­

frage of his brethren, both the elector and the elected

would be worthy of death.' After the simple inaugu­

ration of Abubeker, he was obeyed in Medina, Mecca,

and the provinces of Arabia; the Hashemites alone de­

clined the oath of fidelity; and their chief, in his own

house, maintained, above six months, a sullen and inde­

pendent reserve; without listening to the threats of

Omar, who attempted to consume with fire the habitation,

of the daughter of the apostle. The death of Fatima, and

the decline of his party, subdued the indignant spirit of

Ali; he condescended to salute the commander of the

faithful, accepted his excuse of the necessity of pre-

« Ockley, (Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 1. p. 5, 6.) fron/an Arabian MS. repre­

sents Ayesha as adverse to (he substitution of her father in the place of the
apostle.

This fact, so improbable in itself, is unnoticed by Abulfeda, Al Jannabi, and
Al Bo-

chari, the last of whom quotes the tradition of Ayesha herself. (Vit,
Mohammed.

p. 136. Vie de Mahomet torn. 3. p. 236.)

