CHAP. LI. 439

yielded to her unworthy yoke. They no longer hoped,

perhaps they no longer wished, the return of their By­

zantine sovereigns: their present servitude was not alle­

viated by the benefits of order and justice; and the most

zealous Catholic must prefer the imperfect truths of the

Koran to the blind and rude idolatry of the Moors. The

general of the Saracens was again received as the saviour

of the province; the friends of civil society conspired

against the savages of the land; and the royal prophe­

tess was slain in the first battle which overturned the

baseless fabric of her superstition and empire. The

same spirit revived under the successor of Hassan; it

was finally quelled by the activity of Musa and his two

sons, but the number of the rebels may be presumed from

that of three hundred thousand captives; sixty thousand

of whom, the caliph's fifth, were sold for the profit of

the public treasury. Thirty thousand of the barbarian

youth were inlisted in the troops; and the pious labours

of Musa to inculcate the knowledge and practice of the

Koran, accustomed the Africans to obey the apostle of

God and the commander of the faithful. In their cli­

mate and government, their diet and habitation, the wan­

dering Moors resembled the Bedoweens of the desert.

Adoption With the religion, they were proud to adopt the

language, name, and origin of Arabs: the blood

of the strangers and natives was insensibly

mingled; and from the Euphrates to the Atlantic the

same nation might seem to be diffused over the sandy

plains of Asia and Africa. Yet I will not deny that

fifty thousand tents of pure Arabians might be trans­

ported over the Nile, and scattered through the Libyan

desert; and I am not ignorant that five of the Moorish

tribes still retain their barbarous idiom, with the appel­

lation and character of white Africans.5

k The first book of Leo Africanus, and the observations of Dr. Shaw, (p. 320.

223. 227. 247, Sue.) will throw some light on the roving tribes of Barbary, of
Ara­

bian or Moorish descent. But Shaw had seen these savages with distant terror;

and Leo, a captive in the Vatican, appears to have lost more of his Arabic,
than

