46 ROMAN EMPIRE.

expressed by silence and submission; that man ignorant

of his own nature, should not presume to scrutinize the

nature of his God; and that it is sufficient for us to know,

that power and benevolence are the perfect attributes of

the Deity."

His per- Toleration was not the virtue of the times,

secution an(J indulgence to rebels has seldom been the

virtue of princes. But when the prince descends to

the narrow and peevish character of a disputant, he is

easily provoked to supply the defect of argument by

the plenitude of power, and to chastise without mercy

the perverse blindness of those who wilfully shut their

eyes against the light of demonstration. The reign of

Justinian was a uniform yet various scene of persecu­

tion; and he appears to have surpassed his indolent

predecessors, both in the contrivance of his laws and

the rigour of their execution. The insufficient term of

of here- three months was assigned for the conversion

tics. or exile of all heretics ;p and if he still connived

at their precarious stay, they were deprived, under his

iron yoke, not only of the benefits of society, but of

the common birth-right of men and Christians. At

the end of four hundred years, the Montanists of Phry-

giaq still breathed the wild enthusiasm of perfection

and prophecy, which they had imbibed from their male

and female apostles, the special organs of the Paraclete.

On the approach of the Catholic priests and soldiers,

they grasped with alacrity the crown of martyrdom;

the conventicle and the congregation perished in the

flames; but these primitive fanatics were not extin­

"For these wi>e and moderate sentiments, Procopius (de Bell. Goth. lib. 1.e.
3.)

is scourged in the preface of Alemannus, who ranks him among the political
Chris­

tians—sed longe verius hieresium omnium sentinas, prorsusque A
theos—abominable

Atheists, who preached the imitation of God's mercy to man. (ad Hist. Arcan.c.
13.)

P This alternative, a precious circumstance, is preserved by John Malala,
(torn.

2. p. 63. edit. Venet. 1733.) who deserves more credit as he draws towards his

end. After numbering the heretics, Nestorians, Eutychians, &c. ne expectent,

says Justinian, ut digni venia judicentur: jubemus,enimut. . .. convicti et
aperti

hieretici justs et idons animadversion! subjiciantur. Baronius copies and ap­

plauds this edict of the Code. (A. D. 527. no. 39—40.)

i See the character and principles of the Montanists, in Mosheim, de Rebns

Christ, ante Constantinum, p. 410—424.

