CHAP. L. . 311

the Gospel. But the mild tenor of the evangelic style

may explain an ambiguous text, that Jesus did not bring

peace on the earth, but a sword: his patient and humble

virtues should not be confounded with the intolerant,

zeal of princes and bishops, who have disgraced the

name of his disciples. In the prosecution of religious

war, Mahomet might appeal with more propriety to the

example of Moses, of the judges and the kings of Israel.

The military laws of the Hebrews are still more rigid

than those of the Arabian legislator.1 The Lord of hosts

marched in person before the Jews: if a city resisted

their summons, the males, without distinction, were put

to the sword : the seven nations of Canaan were devoted

to destruction; and neither repentance nor conversion

could shield them from the inevitable doom, that no

creature within their precincts should be left alive. The

fair option of friendship, or submission, or battle, was

proposed to the enemies of Mahomet. If they professed

the creed of Islam, they were admitted to all the tempo­

ral and spiritual benefits of his primitive disciples, and

marched under the same banner to extend the religion

which they had embraced. The clemency of the pro­

phet was decided by his interest; yet he seldom tram­

pled on a prostrate enemy: and he seems to promise,

that, on the payment of a tribute, the least guilty of his

unbelieving subjects might be indulged in their wor­

ship, or at least in their imperfect faith. In the first

months of his reign, he practised the lessons of holy

warfare, and diplayed his white banner before the gates

of Medina; the martial apostle fought in person at nine

battles or sieges ;k and fifty enterprises of war were

1 The tenth andtwentieth chapters of Deuteronomy ,with the practical comments

of Joshua, David, &e. are read with more awe than satisfaction by the pious
Chris­

tians of the present age. But the bishops, as well as the rabbles of former
times,

have beat the drum-ecclesiastic with pleasure and success. (Sale's Preliminary

Discourse, p. 142,143.)

k Abulfeda, in ViJ. Moharn. p. 156. The private arsenal of the apostle
consisted

of nine swords, three lances, seven pikes or half-pikes, a quiver and three
bow9,

seven cuirasses, three shields, and two helmets, (Gagnier, torn. 3. p.
328—334.)

