CHAP. LII. 507

dained by their own writers, who were ignorant of the

fame of Jupiter and Minos, but it had not been over­

looked by the Byzantine historians, who now begin to

cast a clearer light on the affairs of their own times.1

A band of Andalusian volunteers, discontented with the

climate or government of Spain, explored the adven­

tures of the sea; but as they sailed in no more than ten

or twenty galleys, their warfare must be branded with

the name of piracy. As the subjects and sectaries of

the white party, they might lawfully invade the domi­

nions of the black caliphs. A rebellious faction intro­

duced them into Alexandria ;ra they cut in pieces both

friends and foes, pillaged the churches and the moschs,

sold above six thousand Christian captives, and main­

tained their station in the capital of Egypt, till they

were oppressed by the forces and the presence of Al-

mamon himself. From the mouth of the Nile to the

Hellespont the islands and sea-coasts both of the Greeks

and Moslems were exposed to their depredations; they

saw, they envied, they tasted, the fertility of Crete, and

soon returned with forty galleys to a more serious attack.

The Andalusians wandered over the land fearless and

unmolested; but when they descended with their plun­

der to the sea-shore, their vessels were in flames, and

their chief, Abu Caab, confessed himself the author of

the mischief. Their clamours accused his madness or

treachery: Of what do you complain? replied the crafty

3. p. 343—544.) Although Crete is styled by Homer, nitipx, by Dionysius Xmttfn

« xai suBm;. 1 cannot conceive that mountainous island to surpass, or equal,
in

fertility, the greater part of Spain.

1 The most authentic and circumstantial intelligence is obtained from the four

books of the Continuation of Theophanes, compiled by the pen or the command of

Constantine Porphyrogenitus, with the life of his father Basil the Macedonian.

(Scriptores post Theophanem, p. 1—162. a Francis. Combesis, Paris, 1685.) The

loss of Crete and Sicily is related, lib. 2. p. 46—52. To these we may add the

secondary evidence of Joseph Genesius, (lib. 2. p. 21. Venet. 1733.) George

Cedrenus, (Compend. p. 506—508.) and John Scylitzes Curopalata. (apud Baron.

Annal. Eccles. A. 13. 827, no. 24, &c.) But the modern Greeks are such noto­

rious plagiaries, that I should only quote a plurality of names.

m Renaudot (Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 251—256. 268—270.) has described the

ravages of the Andalusian Arabs in Egypt, but has forgot to connect them with
the

conquest of Crete.

