8 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the Gnostics, that both the form and the substance pro­

ceeded from the divine essence. The idea of pure and

absolute spirit is a refinement of modern philosophy; the

incorporeal essence, ascribed by the ancients to human

souls, celestial beings, and even the Deity himself, does

not exclude the notion of extended space; and their

imagination was satisfied with a subtle nature of air, or

fire, or ether, incomparably more perfect than the gross-

ness of the material world. If we define the place, we

must describe the figure, of the Deity. Our experience,

perhaps our vanity, represents the powers of reason and

virtue under a human form. The Anthropomorphites,

who swarmed among the monks of Egypt, and the Ca­

tholics of Africa, could produce the express declaration of

Scripture, that man was made after the image of his Cre­

ator."1 The venerable Serapian, one of the saints of the

Nitrian desert, relinquished with many a tear, his dar­

ling prejudice, and bewailed, like an infant, his unlucky

conversion, which had stolen away his God, and left his

mind without any visible object of faith or devotion."

in. DoU- III. Such were the fleeting shadows of the

ari"e Dc.cetes. A more substantial, though less sim-

ple hypothesis, was contrived by Cerinthus of

Asia," who dared to oppose the last of the apostles.

Placed on the confines of the Jewish and Gentile

"i The pilgrim Casaian, who visited Egypt in the beginning of the fifth
century,

observes and laments the reign of anthropomorphism among the monks, who were

not conscious that they embraced the system of Epicurus. (Cicero, de Nat. J
'co-

rum, 1.18—34.] Ab universo propemodem genere monachorum, qui per totam

provinciam Egyptum morabantur, pro simplicitatis errore susceptum est, at e
con-

trario memoratum pontificem (Theophilus) vclut hsresi gravissima depravatum,

pars maxima seniorum ab universe fraternitatu corpora decerneret detestandurn.

(Cassian, Collation. 10. 2.) As long as St. Augustin remained a Manichsan, IIK

was scandalized by the anthropomorphism of the vulgar Catholics.

"Its est in oratione senez mente confusus, eo quod ilium i»&? oraro/uop fit
imaginem

Deitatis, quam proponere sibi in oratione consueveret aboleri de suo cordc
sentiret,

ut in amarissimos llrtus, crebrosque singultus repente prorumpens, in terr»in
pros-

tratus, cum ejulatu validissimo proclamaret,—" Heu me miserum! tolerant a me

Drum meum, et quem nunc teneam non habeo, vel quern adorem, aut interpellem

jam nescio." Caisian, Collat. 10 .2.

• St. John and Cerinthus (A. D. 80, Cleric. Hist. Eccles. p. 493.)
accidentally

met in the public path of Ephesus; but the apostle fled from the heretic, lest
the

building should tumble on their heads. This foolish story, reprobated by Dr.
Middle-

ton, (Miscellaneous Works, vol. 2.) is related however by Iremeus, (3. 3.) on
the evi­

dence of Polycarp, and was probably suited to the time and residence of
Cerinthus.

The obsolete, yet probably the true reading of 1 John iy. 3.—oXXini TOi
1nrow—alludes

<o the double nature of that primitive heretic.

