CHAP. XLVII. 17

Thaumasius the wonderful; his tomb was decorated

with the trophies of martyrdom, and the patriarch as­

cended the pulpit, to celebrate the magnanimity of an

assassin and a rebel. Such honours might incite the

faithful to combat and die under the banners of the saint;

and he soon prompted, or accepted, the sacrifice of a

virgin, who professed the religion of the Greeks, and

cultiviated the friendship of Orestes. Hypatia, the

daughter of Theon the mathematician,11 was initiated

in her father's studies: her learned comments have

elucidated the geometry of Apollonius and Diophantus,

and she publicly taught, both at Athens and Alexan­

dria, the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle. In the

bloom of beauty, and in the maturity of wisdom, the

modest maid refused her lovers and instructed her dis­

ciples; the persons most illustrious for their rank or

merit were impatient to visit the female philosopher;

and Cyril beheld, with jealous eye, the gorgeous train

of horses and slaves who crowded the door of her aca­

demy. A rumour was spread among the Christians, that

the daughter of Theon was the only obstacle to the re­

conciliation of the prefect and the archbishop; and that

obstacle was speedily removed. On a fatal day, in the

holy season of Lent, Hypatia was torn from her chariot,

stripped naked, dragged to the church, and inhumanly

butchered by the hands of Peter the reader, and a

troop of savage and merciless fanatics: her flesh was

scraped from her bones with sharp oyster-shells,0 and

her quivering limbs were delivered to the flames. The

just progress of inquiry and punishment was stopped

'• For Theon, and his daughter Hypatia, see Fabricius, Bibliothec. torn. 8. p.

910,311. Her article in the Lexicon of Suidas is curious and original.
Itesvchins

(Meursii Opera, torn. 7. p. 295, 296.) observes, that she was prosecuted em
ruy

wnpg»xx»w« 9-iKfiay; and an epigram in the Greek Anthology (lib. 1. c. 76. p.
159.

edit. Mni.la.ii celebrates her knowledge and eloquence. She is honourably men­

tioned (Epist. 10.15,16. 33—80. 124. 135. 153.) by her friend and disciple the

philosophic bishop Synesius.

c Oc-rfcLnut aniXn, tuu /ulXnJov }UKTwoo-am;, &c. Oyster-shells were
plentifully

strewed on the sea-beach before the Casareurn. I may therefore prefer the
lite­

ral sense, without rejecting the metaphorical version of tegulae, tiles, which
is used

by M. de Valois. I am ignorant, and the assassins were probably regardless,

whether their victim waft yet alive.

VOL. VI. C

