250 ROMAN EMPIRE.

southern basis presents a front of a thousand miles to

the Indian ocean. The entire surface of the peninsula

exceeds in a fourfold proportion that of Germany or

France; but the far greater part has been justly stigma-

^ .f tized with the epithets of the stony and the sandy.

andcii- Even the wilds of Tartary are decked by the

hand of nature with lofty trees and luxuriant

herbage; and the lonesome traveller derives a sort of

comfort and society from the presence of a vegetable

life. But in the dreary waste of Arabia, a boundless

level of sand is intersected by sharp and naked moun足

tains, and the face of the desert, without shade or shelter,

is scorched by the direct and intense rays of a tropical

sun. Instead of refreshing breezes, the winds, particu足

larly from the south-west, diffuse a noxious and even

deadly vapour; the hillocks of sand, which they alter足

nately raise and scatter, are compared to the billows of

the ocean, and whole caravans, whole armies, have been

lost and buried in the whirlwind. The common bene足

fits of water are an object of desire and contest; and

such is the scarcity of wood, that some art is requisite

to preserve and propagate the element of fire. Arabia

is destitute of navigable rivers, which fertilize the soil,

and convey its produce to the adjacent regions: the

torrents that fall from the hills are imbibed by the thirsty

earth: the rare and hardy plants, the tamarind or the

acacia, that strike their roots into the clefts of the rocks,

are nourished by the dews of the night; a scanty supply

of rain is collected in cisterns and aqueducts; the wells

and springs are the secret treasure of the desert; and

the pilgrim of Mecca," after many a dry and sultry

inarch, is disgusted by the taste of the waters, which

have rolled over a bed of sulphur or salt. Such is the

general and genuine picture of the climate of Arabia.

The experience of evil enhances the value of any local

a In the thirty days or stations, between Cairo and Mecca, there are fifteen
de-

etitute of good water. See the route of the Hadjees, in Shaw's Travels, p.
477.

