CHAP. LI I. 481

more probably the vanity, of the commander of the

faithful. From the Pyrennees, Abderame proceeded

without delay to the passage of the Rhone and the siege

of Arles. An army of Christians attempted the relief of

the city: the tombs of their leaders were yet visible in

the thirteenth century; and many thousands of their dead

bodies were carried down the rapid stream into the Me­

diterranean sea. The arms of Abderame were not less

successful on the side of the ocean. He passed without

opposition the Garonne and Dordogne, which unite their

waters in the gulf of Bourdeaux; but he found, beyond

those rivers, the camp of the intrepid Eudes, who had

formed a second army, and sustained a second defeat, so

fatal to the Christians, that, according to their sad con­

fession, God alone could reckon the number of the slain.

The victorious Saracen overran the provinces of Aqui-

tain, whose Gallic names are disguised, rather than lost,

in the modern appellations of Perigord, Saintogne, and

Poitou: his standards were planted on the walls, or at

least before the gates, of Tours and of Sens; and his de­

tachments overspread the kingdom of Burgundy as far

as the well-known cities of Lyons and Besan^on. The

memory of these devastations, for Abderame did not

spare the country or the people, was long preserved by

tradition; and the invasion of France by the Moors, or

Mahometans, affords the ground-work of those fables,

which have been so wildly disfigured in the romances of

chivalry, and so elegantly adorned by the Italian muse.

In the decline of society and art, the deserted cities could

supply a slender booty to the Saracens; their richest

spoil was found in the churches and monasteries, which

they stripped of their ornaments and delivered to the

flames: and the tutelar saints, both Hilary of Poitiers

and Martin of Tours, forgot their miraculous powers in

the defence of their own sepulchres/ A victorious line

1 With regard to the sanctuary of St. Martin of Tours, Roderic Ximenes accuses

the Saracens of the dad. Turonis civitatem, ecclesiam et palatia vastatione et

incendio simili diruit et consnmpsit. The continuator of Fredegarius imputes
to

V OL. VI. 2 I

