54 ROMAN EMPIRE.

effect, and the timid or vehement Catholics condemned

even the semblance of a retreat in the presence of a subtle

and audacious enemy. The orthodox (the prevailing)

party devised new modes of speech, and argument, and

interpretation: to either nature of Christ, they speciousr

ly applied a proper and distinct energy; but the diffe­

rence was no longer visible when they allowed that the

human and the divine will were invariably the same.k

The disease was attended with the customary symptoms >

but the Greek clergy, as if satiated with the endless con­

troversy of the incarnation, instilled a healing counsel in-

tq the ear of the prince and people. They declared them­

selves MONOTHELITES (assertors of the unity of will), but

they treated the words as new, the questions as superflu­

ous; and recommended a religious silence as the most

agreeable to the prudence and charity of the gospel.

of silence was successively imposed by

raciu Qr exposition of Heraclius, the type

A.D.639; or model of his grandson Constans;' and the im-

Constanfc perfect edicts were subscribed with alacrity or

A. b. 648. reluctance by the four patriarchs of Rome, Con-

stantinpple, Alexandria, and Antipch. JJut the bishop

and monks of Jerusalem sounded the alarm: in the lan­

guage, or even in the silence, of the Greeks, the Latin

churches detected a latent heresy; and the obedience of

pope Honorius to, the commands of his sovereign was

retracted afl$ censured by the bolder ignorance of his

successors. They condemned the execrable and abo^

mjn,able h,e.re£y of the Monqthelites, who revived the er­

ignorant that they might allege the positive authority of the eothesis. 'O
fua{it

Naimi{iif xaiwl{ tuufm tvi diutt nu Kufieu aa&fvf*ru, KOI Suo tiaa-ym vuyt,
(the com­

mon reproach of the A^onophisites,) Jut OtXn/uara TWT« uma nu fnX/wtirfj
•naiamn

>( TauTo BouVav TOT . . . . tin irpwawm ilefcan. (Concil. torn. 7. p. 205.)

k See the orthodox faith in Fetavios: (Dogmata Theolog. torn. 5. lib. 9. c.
6—10.

p. 433—447.) all the depths of this controversy. are founded in the Creek
dialogue

between Marimus and Pyrrhus, (ad calcem, torn, 8. Annal. Baron, p. 7o$—794.)

which relates a real conference, and produced as short-lived a conversion.

1 Impiissimam ecthesim .... ecelerosum typum (Concil. torn. 7. p.366.)diabo-

licsa operationis genimina, (sora, germina, or eke the Greek ymftpTo. in the
origi­

nal. Concil. p. 363, 364.) are the expressions of the eighteenth anathema. The

epistle of pope Martin to Amandus, a Gallican bishop, stigmatizes^ the
Monpthe-

lites and their heresy with equal virulence, (p. 392.)

