CHAP. XLVII. 43

Catholic cry; and the galleys of Anastasius lay upon

their oars before the palace, till the patriarch had par­

doned his penitent, and hushed the waves of the troubled

multitude. The triumph of Macedonius was checked

by a speedy exile; but the zeal of his flock was again

exasperated by the same question,—Whether one of the

Trinity had been crucified? On this momentous occa­

sion, the blue and green factions of Constantinople sus­

pended their discord, and the civil and military powers

were annihilated in their presence. The keys of the city,

and the standards of their guards, were deposited in

the Forum of Constantine, the principal station and

camp of the faithful. Day and night they were inces­

santly busied either in singing hymns to the honour of

their god, or in pillaging and murdering the servants

of their prince. The head of his favourite monk, the

friend, as they styled him, of the enemy of the holy

Trinity, was borne aloft on a spear; and the firebrands,

which had been darted against heretical structures, dif­

fused the undistinguishing flames against the most or­

thodox buildings. The statues of the emperor were

broken, and his person was concealed in a suburb, till,

at the end of three days, he dared to implore the mercy

of his subjects. Without his diadem, and in the pos­

ture of a suppliant, Anastasius appeared on the throne

of the circus. The Catholics, before his face, rehearsed

their genuine Trisagion; they exulted in the offer which

he proclaimed by the voice of a herald, of abdicating

the purple; they listened to the admonition, that since

all could not reign, they should previously agree in the

choice of a sovereign; and they accepted the blood of

two unpopular ministers, whom their master without

hesitation, condemned to the lions. These furious

but transient seditions were encouraged by the suc­

cess of Vitalian, who, with an army of Huns and Bul­

garians, for the most part idolaters, declared himself

the champion of the Catholic faith. In this pious

