CHAP. XLVII. Ifi

of his life, and the eloquence of his sermons; but the

first homily which he preached before the devout Theo-

dosius, betrayed the acrimony and impatience of his

zeal. Give me, O Caesar! (he exclaimed) give me the

earth purged of heretics, and I will give you in exchange

the kingdom of heaven. Exterminate with me, the here­

tics; and with you, I will exterminate the Persians.

On the fifth day, as if the treaty had been already sign­

ed, the patriarch of Constantinople discovered, surprised,

and attacked a secret conventicle of the Arians: they

preferred death to submission; the flames, that were

kindled by their despair, soon spread to the neighbour­

ing houses, and the triumph of Nestorius was clouded

by the name of incendiary. On either side of the Hel­

lespont, his episcopal vigour imposed a rigid formulary

of faith and discipline; a chronological error concern­

ing the festival of Easter was punished as an offence

against the church and state. Lydia and Caria, Sardes,

and Miletus, were purified with the blood of the obsti­

nate Quartodecimans; and the edict of the emperor, or

rather of the patriarch, enumerates three-and-twenty de­

grees and denominations in the guilt and punishment of

heresy.h But the sword of persecution, which Nestorius

so furiously wielded, was soon turned against his own

breast. Religion was the pretence; but, in the judg­

ment of a contemporary saint, ambition was the genuine

motive of episcopal warfare.1

His betes In ^e Sv"an school, Nestorius had been

A. D. «9 taught to abhor the confusion of the two natures,

and nicely to discriminate the humanity of his

master Christ from the divinity of the Lord Jesus.k The

k Cod. Theodos. lib. 16. tit. 5. leg. 65. with the illustrations of Baronius,
(A. D.

428. no. 25, &c.) Godefroy (ad locum), and Pagi. (Critics, torn. 2. p. 208.)

1 Isidore of Pelusium. (lib. 4. epist. 57.) His words are strong and
scandalous—

•n 3oui*a£u;, ti *ai w CTgt flrpayiwa &ltw xai Xoyou xfitTrov ^M^oenn
wftmtntntnai wo

4 i?.3;£ii; l*i3ax;csirtf*lMi. Isidore is a saint, but he never became a
bishop; and I

half suspect, that the pride of Diogenes trampled on the pride of Plato.

k La Croze (Christianisme des hides, torn. 1. p. 44—53. Thesaurus Epistolicus

La Crozianus, torn. 3. p. 376—280.) has detected the use of i Jfcnramf, and o
xvf a;

lini*, which, in the fourth, fifth, and sixth centuries, discriminate the
school of •

Piodorus of Tarsus and his Nestorian disciples.

