14 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Cyril, pa. The name of CYRIL of Alexandria is famous

ttriarchof in controversial story, and the title of saint is

Alexandria , •'

A. D. 412, a mark that his opinions and his party have

A?b.444, finally prevailed. In the house of his uncle,

Junesr. the archbishop Theophilus, he imbibed the or­

thodox lessons of zeal and dominion, and five years of

his youth were profitably spent in the adjacent monas­

teries of Nitria. Under the tuition of the abbot Sera-

pion, he applied himself to ecclesiastical studies, with

such indefatigable ardour, that, in the course of one sleep­

less night, he has perused the four gospels, the Catholic

epistles, and the Epistle to the Romans. Origen he de­

tested: but the writings of Clemens and Dionysius, of

Athanasius and Basil, were continually in his hands : by

the theory and practice of dispute, his faith was con­

firmed, and his wit was sharpened: he extended round

his cell the cobwebs of scholastic theology, and medi­

tated the works of allegory and metaphysics, whose re­

mains, in seven verbose folios, now peaceably slumber

by the side of their rivals." Cyril prayed and fasted in

the desert, but his thoughts (it is the reproach of a

friend") were still fixed on the world; and the call of

Theophilus, who summoned him to the tumult of cities

and synods, was too readily obeyed by the aspiring her­

mit. With the approbation of his uncle, he assumed

the office, and acquired the fame, of a popular preacher.

His comely person adorned the pulpit, the harmony of

his voice resounded in the cathedral, his friends were

stationed to lead or second the applause of the congre­

gation/ and the hasty notes of the scribes preserved his

discourses, which, in their effect, though not in their

"La Croze (Hist, da Christianisme des Indes, torn. 1. p. 24.) avows In- con­

tempt for the genius and writings of CyriL De tous les ouvrages des anciens,
11

y en a peu qu'on lise avec moins d'utilite; and Dupin,(Bibliotheque
Ecclesiastique,

torn. 4. p. 42—52.) in words of respect, teaches us to despise thern.

* Of Isidore of Pelusiurn. (lib. 1. epist. 25. p. 8.) As the letter is not of the  
most creditable sort, Tillemont, less sincere than the Bollandists, affects a
doubt

whether this Cyril is the nephew of Theophilus. (Mern. Eccles. torn. 13. p.
268.)

* A grammarian is named by Socrates, (lib. 7. 13) Jiairupo; Jf axpoam; tta ttn<r-  
xmrw KvgiXtou xafctrrw;, nai iripi •n s{OTW? a rtu; iifanfaXiai; atmv lyttpn m
rirtvian-

•nrtf.

