CHAP. XLIX. 195

signal, Ravenna, Venice, and the cities of the exarchate

and Pentapolis, adhered to the cause of religion; their

military force by sea and land consisted, for the most

part, of the natives; and the spirit of patriotism and

zeal was transfused into the mercenary strangers. The

Italians swore to live and die in the defence of the

pope and the holy images: the Roman people was de­

voted to their father, and even the Lombards were am­

bitious to share the merit and advantage of this holy

war. The most treasonable act, but the most obvious

revenge, was the destruction of the statues of Leo him­

self: the most effectual and pleasing measure of rebel­

lion, was the withholding the tribute of Italy, and de­

priving him of a power which he had recently abused

by the imposition of a new capitation.p A form of ad­

ministration was preserved by the election of magistrates

and governors: and so high was the public indignation,

that the Italians were prepared to create an orthodox

emperor, and to conduct him with a fleet and army to

the palace of Constantinople. In that palace, the Ro­

man bishops, the second and third Gregory, were con­

demned as the authors of the revolt, and every attempt

was made, either by fraud or force, to seifce their per­

sons, and to strike at their lives. The city was repeat­

edly visited or assaulted by captains of the guards, and

dukes and exarchs of high dignity or secret trust; they

landed with foreign troops, they obtained some domes­

tic aid, and the superstition of Naples may blush that

her fathers were attached to the cause of heresy. But

these clandestine or open attacks were repelled by the

torem quasi contra hmleni ae armavit, renuens haeresim ejus, scribens ubique
se

cavere Christianas eo quod orta fuisset, impietas talis. Igitur permoti omnes

Pentapolenses, atque Venetiarum exercitus contra Imperatoris jussionem
restite-

runt; dicentes se nunquam in ejusdem pontificis condescendere necem, sed pro

ejns magi s defensione viriliter decertare. (p. 156.)

P A census, or capitation, says Anastasius; (p. 156.) a most cruel tax,
unknown

to the Saracens themselves, exclaims the zealous Maimbonrg, (Hisi. des Icono-

clastes, lib. 1.) and Theophanes, (p. 344.) who talks of Pharaoh's numbering
the

male children of Israel. This mode of taxation was familiar to the Saracens;

ami, most unluckily for the historian, it was imposed a few years afterward in

France by his patron Louis XIV.

o2

