CHAP. L.

the reproach of idolatry and polytheism. The creed of

Mahomet is free from suspicion or ambiguity; and the

Koran is a glorious testimony to the unity of God. The

prophet of Mecca rejected the worship of idols and men,

of stars and planets, on the rational principle that what­

ever rises must set, that whatever is born must die, that

whatever is corruptible must decay and perish.h In the

author of the universe, his rational enthusiasm confessed

and adored an infinite and eternal being, without form

or place, without issue or similitude, present to our

most secret thoughts, existing by the necessity of his

own nature, and deriving from himself all moral and

intellectual perfection. These sublime truths, thus an­

nounced in the language of the prophet,1 are firmly held

by his disciples, and defined with metaphysical preci­

sion by the interpreters of the Koran. A philosophic

theist might subscribe the popular creed of the Maho­

metans :* a creed too sublime perhaps for our present

faculties. What object remains for the fancy, or even

the understanding, when we have abstracted from the

unknown substance all ideas of time and space, of mo­

tion and matter, of sensation and reflection? The first

principle of reason and revelation was confirmed by the

voice of Mahomet: his proselytes, from India to Mo­

rocco, are distinguished by the name of Unitarians;

arid the danger of idolatry has been prevented by the

interdiction of images. The doctrine of eternal decrees

and absolute predestination is strictly embraced by the

Mahometans; and they struggle with the common dif­

ficulties, how to reconcile the prescience of God with

the freedom and responsibility of man; how to explain

fc This train of thought is philosophically exemplified in the character Of
Abra­

ham, who opposed in Chaldea the first introduction of idolatry. (Kor.ui, c. 6.

p. 106. d'Herbelot. Bibliot. Orient, p. 13.)

'See the Koran, particularly the second, (p. 30.) the fifty-seventh,(p. 437.)
the

fifty-eighth, (p. 441.) chapter, which proclaim the omnipotence of the
Creator.

* The most orthodox creeds are translated by Pocock, (Specimen, p. 274.  
284—292.) Ockley, (Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 2. p. 82—9.5.) Reland, (de
Reli-

nipn. Moharn. lib. 1. p. 7—13.) and Chardin. (Voyages en Perse, torn. p.
4—-28.)

The great truth that God is without similitude, is foolishly criticised by
Maracci,

(Alcoran, torn. 1. part. 3. p. 87—94.) because he made man after his own
image.

