CHAP. L. 325

enthusiasm of the rising sect, that the noblest chiefs

served without reluctance under the slave of the prophet.

On the event of his decease, Jaafar and Abdallah were

successively substituted to the command; and if the

three should perish in the war, the troops were autho­

rized to elect their general. The three leaders were

slain in the battle of Muta,h the first military action which

tried the valour of the Moslems against a foreign enemy.

Zeid fell, like a soldier, in the foremost ranks; the death of

Jaafar was heroic and memorable; he lost his right hand;

he shifted the standard to his left; the left was severed

from his body; he embraced the standard with his bleed­

ing stumps, till he was tranfixed to the ground with fifty

honourable wounds. Advance (cried Abdallah,who stept

into the vacant place), advance with confidence; either

victory or paradise is our own. The lance of a Roman

decided the alternative; but the falling standard was

rescued by Caled, the proselyte of Mecca; nine swords

were broken in his hand; and his valour withstood and re­

pulsed the superior numbers of the Christians. Inthenoc-

turnal council of the camp he was chosen to command: his

skilful evolutions of the ensuing day secured either the

victory or the retreat of the Saracens: and Caled is re­

nowned among his brethren and his enemies by the

glorious appellation of the Sword of God. In the pulpit,

Mahomet described, with prophetic rapture, the crowns

of the blessed martyrs; but in private he betrayed the

feelings of human nature: he was surprised as he wept

over the daughter of Zeid. What do I see? said the as­

tonished votary.—You see (replied the apostle) a friend

who is deploring the loss of his most faithful friend. After

the conquest of Mecca, the sovereign of Arabia affected

to prevent the hostile preparations of Heraclius; and so­

lemnly proclaimed war against the Romans, without at­

tempting to disguise the hardhips and dangers of the en-

"For the battle of Muta, and its consequences, see Abulfeda (p. 100—101.) and

Gagnier. (torn. 1. p. 3J7—313.) KaXiJi; (says Theophanes) « XiyouTi f*a£iiilai
T«i

0MV.

