274 ROMAN EMPIRE.

eight parts, the zodiac 6f (he rrioon, and to Wess die

constellations who refreshed, with salutary rains, the

thirst of the desert. The reign of the heavenly orbs

could not be extended beyond the visible sphere; and

some metaphysical powers were necessary to sustain

the transmigration of souls and the resurrection of bo­

dies: a camel was left to perish on the grave, that he

"might serve his master in another life; and'the invoca­

tion of departed spirits implies that they were still en­

dowed with consciousness and poWer. I am ignorant,

and I am careless, of the blind mythology of the bar-

'barians; of the local deities, of the stars, the air, and

the earth, of their sex or titles, their attributed or Isub-

ordihation. Each tribe, each family, each indepen­

dent warrior, created and changed the rites and the

object of his fantastic worship; but the nation, in every

age, has bowed to the religion, as well as to the'lan-

guage, of Mecca. The genuine antiquity of the

TheCaa- CAABA ascends beyond the Christian era: in

tem0ie of describing the coast of the Red sea, the Greek

Mecca, historian Diodorus7 has remarked, between ithe

Thamudites and the Sabsans, a famous temple, whose

superior sanctity was revered by all the Arabians: tire

linen or silken veil, which is annually renewed by&e

Turkish emperor, was first offered by a pious king of

the Homerites, who reigned seven hundred years before

the time of Mahomet." A tent Or a cavern might suf­

fice for the worship of the savages, but an edifice of

stone and clay has been erected in its place; and the

> Is(-.v ayvframti iifarai rifta/inn iim tarrm ApSi.v irtfirrvfifm. (Diod."
Sir ul.

torn. 1. fib. 3. p. 211.) The character and position are so correctly
appofite, that

I am surprised how this curious passage should have been read without notice
or

application. Yet this famous temple had been overlooked by Agatharcide* (de

, Mini liubro, ],. 58. in Hudson, torn. 1.) whom Diodorus copies in the rest
of the

description. Was the Sicilian more knowing than the Egyptian? Or was the

(.'fuih;i built between the yean of Rome 650 and 746, the dates of their
respec­

tive histories? (Dodwell, in Dissert, ad torn. 1. Hudson, p. 72. Fabricius,
Bib-

liot. Griee, torn. 12. D. 770.)

* 1'urtick, Specimen, p. 60, 61. From the death of Mahomet we ascend to 68,  
from his birth to 129, years before the Christian era. The veil or curtain,
which

is now, of silk and gold, was no more than a piece of Egyptian linen.
(Abulfedai

in Vit. Mohammed, c. 6. p. 14.)

