242 ROMAN EMPIRE.

service was chastised with a blow by his new father.

The blow was productive of a revolution. Romans

(exclaimed the youth), once you were the masters of the

world, and these Burgundians the most abject of your

slaves. They now reign, these voracious and brutal sa­

vages, and my injuiy is the commencement of your servi­

tude.' The alarum-bell was rung to arms in every

quarter of the city; the Burgundians retreated with baste

and shame; Marozia was imprisoned by her victorious

son; and his brother pope John XL, was reduced to the

exercise of his spiritual functions. With the title of

prince, Alberic possessed above twenty years the go­

vernment of Rome, and he is said to have gratified the

popular prejudice, by restoring the office, or at least

the title, of consuls and tribunes. His son and heir

Octavian assumed, with the pontificate, the name of

John XII.: like his predecessor, he wa"s provoked by

the Lombard princes to seek a deliverer for the church

and republic; and the services of Otho were rewarded

with the imperial dignity. But the Saxon was impe­

rious, the Romans were impatient, the festival of the

coronation was disturbed by the secret conflict of pre­

rogative and freedom, and Otho commanded his sword-

bearer not to stir from his person, lest he should be as­

saulted and murdered at the foot of the altar.1

john0xii. Before he repassed the Alps, the emperor chas-

. D. 967. tised the revolt of the people, and the ingrati­

tude of John XII. The pope was degraded in a synod;

the prefect was mounted on an ass, whipped through

the city, and cast into a dungeon; thirteen of the most

guilty were hanged, others were mutilated or banished;

and this severe process was justified by the ancient

laws of Theodosius and Justinian. The voice of fame

i Romanorum aliqusndo servi, scilicet Burgundiones, Romania impereat? ..

Roman;'.' urbis dignitas ad tantam est stultitiirn ductaf ut meretricum etiam
im-

perio pareat? (Liutprand, lib. 3. c. 12. p. 450.) Sigonius (lib. 6. p. 400.)
po­

sitively affirms the renovation of the consulship; but in the old writers
Albericus

is more frequently styled princeps Romanorurn.

; Ditmar, p. 354. apud Schmidt, torn. 3. p. 439.

