CHAP. ill. 467

of the Christians, and scattered among their enemies the

seeds of division and decay.

First siege Forty-six years after the flight of Mahomet

sfantino ^rom Mecca, his disciples appeared in arms under

pie by the the walls of Constantinople.1 They were ani-

A.D. ees mated by a genuine or fictitious saying of the

~67°- prophet, that, to the first army which besieged

the city of the Caesars, their sins were forgiven: the long

series of Roman triumphs would be meritoriously trans­

ferred to the conquerors of new Rome; and the wealth

of nations was deposited in this well-chosen seat of

royalty and commerce. No sooner had the caliph

Moawiyah suppressed his rivals and established his

throne, than he aspired to expiate the guilt of civil blood,

by the success and glory of his holy expedition ;b his

preparations by sea and land were adequate to the im­

portance of the object: his standard was intrusted to

Sophian, a veteran warrior, but the troops were encou­

raged by the example and presence of Yezid, the son

and presumptive heir of the commander of the faithful.

The Greeks had little to hope, nor had their enemies any

reasons of fear, from the courage and vigilance of the

reigning emperor, who disgraced the name of Constan-

tine, and imitated only the inglorious years of his grand­

father Heraclius. Without delay or opposition, the

naval forces of the Saracens passed through the un­

guarded channel of the Hellespont, which even now,

under the feeble and disorderly government of the Turks,

is maintained as the natural bulwark of the capital.0 The

» ThroplmiKjs places the seten years of the siege of Constantinople in the
year of

our Christian era 673, (of the Alexandrian 665, Sept. 1.) and the peace of the
Sara­

cens, four years afterward; a glaring inconsistency! which Petavius, Guar, and

Pagi, (Criticn, torn. 4. p. 63, 64.) have struggled to remove. Of the
Arabians,

the Hegira 52 (A. D. 672, January 8.) is assigned by Elmacin, the year 48, (A.
D.

668, Feb. 20.) by Abalfeda, whose testimony I esteem the most convenient and

creditable.

"Eor this first siege of Constantinople, see Nicephorus, (Breviar. p. 21, 22.)

Theophancs, ( Chronograph, p. 294.) Cedrenus, (Compend. p. 437.) Zonaras,
(Hist.

torn, 2. Hb. 14. p. 89.) Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 56, 57.) Abulfeda,
(Annal.

Moslem, p. 127, 128. vers. Reiske) d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient. Conetantinah)

Ockiey'a History of the Saracens, vol. 2. p. 127,128.

• The state and defence of the Dardanelles is exposed in the Memoires of th«

2n 2

