CHAP. LII. 509

the Greeks, the apostate was slain before her walls, and

his African friends were reduced to the necessity of

feeding on the flesh of their own horses. In their turn

they were relieved by a powerful reinforcement of their

brethren of Andalusia: the largest and western part of

the island was gradually reduced, and the commodious

harbour of Palermo was chosen for the seat of the naval

and military power of the Saracens. Syracuse preserved

about fifty years the faith which she had sworn to Christ

and to Caesar. In the last and fatal siege, her citizens

displayed some remnant of the spirit which had former­

ly resisted the power of Athens and Carthage. They

stood above twenty days against the battering-rams and

catapult tf, the mines and tortoises of the besiegers; and

the place might have'been relieved, if the mariners of the

imperial fleet had not been detained at Constantinople

in building a church to the Virgin Mary. The dea­

con Theodosius, with the bishop and clergy, was drag­

ged in chains from the altar to Palermo, cast into a sub­

terraneous dungeon, and exposed to the hourly peril of

death or apostacy. His pathetic, and not inelegant

complaint, may be read as the epitaph of his country.'1

From the Roman conquest to this final calamity, Syra­

cuse, now dwindled to the primitive isle of Ortygea,

had insensibly declined. Yet the relics were still pre­

cious; the plate of the cathedral weighed five thousand

pounds of silver; the entire spoil was computed at one

million of pieces of gold (about four hundred thousand

pounds sterling), and the captives must outnumber the

seventeen thousand Christians who were transported

from the sack of Tauromenium into African servitude.

In Sicily the religion and language of the Greeks were

eradicated; and such was the docility of the rising ge­

neration, that fifteen thousand boys were circumcised

f The narrative or lamentation of Theodosius is transcribed and illustrated by

Pagi. (Critica, torn. 3. p. 719, &c.) Conatantine Porphyrogenitus (in Vit.
Basil,

c. 69, 70. p. 190—192.) mentions the loss of Syracuse and the triumph of the

demons.

