280 ROMAN EMPIRE.

In the story of the Hebrew patriarchs, the Arabs were

pleased to discover the fathers of their nation. They

applauded the birth and promises of Ismael; revered

the faith and virtue of Abraham; traced his pedigree

and their own to the creation of the first man, and im­

bibed, with equal credulity, the prodigies of the holy

text, and the dreams and traditions of the Jewish rabbis.

Birti a ' The base and plebeian origin of Mahomet is

education an unskilful calumny of the Christians,' who

met, A.0D. exalt instead of degrading the merit of their

569—609. a(iversary. JJis descent from Ismael was a

national privilege or fable; but if the first steps of the

pedigree8 are dark and doubtful, he could produce many

generations of pure and genuine nobility: he sprung.

from the tribe of Koreish and the family of Hashem,

the most illustrious of the Arabs, the princes of Mecca,

and the hereditary guardians of the Caaba. The grand­

father of Mahomet was Abdol Motalleb, the son of Ha­

shem, a weal thy and generous citizen, who relieved the dis­

tress of famine with the supplies of commerce. Mecca,

which had been fed by the liberality of the father, was

saved by the courage of the son. The kingdom of Ye­

men was subject to the Christian princes of Abyssinia:

their vassal Abrahah was provoked by an insult to

avenge the honour of the cross; and the holy city was

invested by a train of elephants and an army of Afri­

cans. A treaty was proposed; and in the first audi­

ence, the grandfather of Mahomet demanded the resti­

the Armenian, Persian, Ethiopia versions, expressly quoted by the fathers of
the

fifth century, who assert, that the Scriptures were translated into all the
barbaric

languages. (Walton, Prolegomena ad Biblia Polyglot, p. 34. 93—97. Simeon,

Hist. Critique du V. et du N. Testament, torn. 1. p. 180, 181.282—286. Z93.
305,

306. torn. 4. p. 306.)

'In eo conveniunt omnes ut plebeio vilique genere ortum, &c. (Hottinger,

Hist . Orient, p. 136.) Yet Theophanes, the most ancient of the Greeks, and
the

father of many a lie, confesses that Mahomet was of the race of Ismael, u /uwc

yiiaunn.nt uXw (Chronograph, p. 277.)

• Abulfeda, (in Vit. Mohammed, c. 1, 2.) and Gagnier (Vie de Mahomet, p.

25—97.) describe the popular and approved genealogy of the prophet. At Mecca.

I would not dispute its authenticity: at Lausanne, I will venture to observe,
1.

That from Ismael to Mahomet, a period of two thousand five hundred years, they

reckon thirty, instead of seventy-five, generations. 2. That the modern
Bedoweens

are ignorant of their history and careless of their pedigree. (Voyage
d'Arvieux,

p. J30.133.)

