184 ROMAN EMPIRE.

The various denominations of men afforded a fund of

prejudice and aversion, of small account in the villages

of Anatolia or Thrace, but which, in the fortune of a

soldier, a prelate, or a eunuch, might be often connected

with the powers of the church and state.

Of such adventurers, the most fortunate was

iconoclast, the emperor Leo III.' who, from the moun-

,sUC tains of Isauria, ascended the throne of the

726^840 eas*' ^e was ignorant of sacred and profane

letters; but his education, his reason, perhaps

his intercourse with the Jews and Arabs, had inspired

the martial peasant with a hatred of images; and it

was held to be the duty of a prince, to impose on his

subjects the dictates of his own conscience. But in

the outset of an unsettled reign, during ten years of toil

and danger, Leo submitted to the meanness of hypo­

crisy, bowed before the idols, which he despised, and sa­

tisfied the. Roman pontiff with the annual professions of

his orthodoxy and zeal. In the reformation of religion,

his first steps were moderate and cautious; he assembled

a great council of senators and bishops, and enacted with

their consent, that all the images should be removed from

thesanctuary and altar to a properheight in the churches,

where they might be visible to the eyes, and inaccessible

to the superstition, of the people. But it was impossible

on either side to check the rapid though adverse impulse

of veneration and abhorrence: in their lofty position, the

sacred images still edified their votaries and reproached

the tyrant. He was himself provoked by resistance and

lib. *. p. 258.) The Armenian churches are still content with the cross;
(Missions

tin Levant, torn. 3. p. 148.) but surely the superstitious Greek is unjust to
the su­

perstition of the Germans of the twelfth century.

• Our original, but not impartial, monuments of the Iconoclasts must be drawn

from the Acts of the Councils, (torn. 8. and 9.) Collect . Lnbbr. edit . Venet
. and

the historical writings of Theophanes, Nicephoras, Manasses, Cedrenus,
Zonaraa,

&c. Of the modem Catholics, Baronius, Pagi, Natalis Alexander, (Hist. Eccles.

Seculum 8. and 9.) and Maimbourg, (Hist . des Conoclastes) have treated the

subject with learning, passion, and credulity. The Protestant labours of
Frederick

Spanheim (Historia Imaginarum Restitnta) and James Basnage, (Hist . des

Eglises Reformers, torn. t. lib. 23. p. 1339 — 1385.) are cast into the
Icouoclast

scale. With this mutual aid, and opposite tendency, it is easy for us to poise
the

balance with philosophic indifference.

