CHAP. LI.

the forest, or rather wilderness, was cleared, the vestiges

of a Roman town were discovered in a sandy plain : the

vegetable food of Cairoan is brought from afar; and the

scarcity of springs constrains the inhabitants to collect in

cisterns and reservoirs a precarious supply of rain-water.

These obstacles were subdued by the industry of Akbah;

he traced a circumference of three thousand and six hun­

dred paces, which he encompassed with a brick wall;

in the space of five years, the governor's palace was sur­

rounded with a sufficient number of private habitations;

a spacious mosch was supported by five hundred columns

of granite, porphyry, and Numidian marble; and Cai­

roan became the seat of learning as well as of empire.

But these were the glories of a later age; the new colony

was shaken by the successive defeats of Akbah and Zo-

beir, and the western expeditions were again interrupted

by the civil discord of the Arabian monarchy. The son

of the valiant Zobeir maintained a war of twelve years,

a siege of seven months, against the house of Ommiyah.

Abdallah was said to unite the fierceness of the lion with

the subtlety of the fox; but if he inherited the courage,

he was devoid of the generosity, of his father.*

_ The return of domestic peace allowed the

of car- caliph Abdalmalek to resume the conquest of

A*$.' Africa; the standard was delivered to Hassan

69*—ess. gOVernor Of Egypt, and the revenue of that king-

dom,with an army of forty thousand men,was consecrated

to the important service. In the vicissitudes of war, the

interior provinces had been alternately won and lost by

the Saracens. But the sea-coast still remained in the

hands of the Greeks; the predecessors of Hassan had re­

spected the name and fortifications of Carthage; and the

number of its defenders was recruited by the fugitives of

• Besides the Arabic chronicles of Abulfeda, Elmacin, and Abalpharagius, under

the seventy-third year of the Hegira, we may consult d'Herbelot (Bibliot.
Orient.

p. 7.) and Ockley. (Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 2. p. 339—3490 The latter has
given

the last and pathetic dialogue between Abdallah and bis mother; but be has
forgot

a physical effect of fcw grief for his death, the return, at the age of
ninety, and fatal

consequences, of her men wi.

2 F2

