348 ROMAN EMPIRE.

He might still have escaped to a fortress in the desert,

that had defied the power of Caesar and Chosroes, and

confided in the fidelity of the tribe of Tai, which would

have armed ten thousand warriors in his defence. In a

conference with the chief of the enemy, he proposed the

option of three honourable conditions; that he should be

allowed to return to Medina, or be stationed in a frontier

garrison against the Turks, or safely conducted to the

presence of Yezid. But the commands of the caliph,

or his lieutenant, were stern and absolute; and Hosein

was informed that he must either submit as a captive

and a criminal to the commander of the faithful, or ex足

pect the consequences of his rebellion. Do you think

(replied he) to terrify me with death? And, during the

short respite of a night, he prepared with calm and so足

lemn resignation to encounter his fate. He checked the

lamentations of his sister Fatima, who deplored the im足

pending ruin of his house. Our trust (said Hosein) if

in God alone. All things, both in heaven and earth,

must perish and return to their creator. My brother,

my father, my mother, were better than me; and every

Mussulman has an example in the prophet. He pressed

his friends to consult their safety by a timely flight; they

unanimously refused to desert or survive their beloved

master; and their courage was fortified by a fervent

prayer and the assurance of paradise. On the morning

of the fatal day, he mounted on horseback, with his

sword in one hand and the Koran in the other; his ge足

nerous band of martyrs consisted only of thirty-two horse

and forty foot: but their flanks and rear were secured by

the tent-ropes, and by a deep trench which they had

filled with lighted faggots, according to the practice of

the Arabs. The enemy advanced with reluctance; and

one of their chiefs deserted, with thirty followers, to

claim the partnership of inevitable death. In every close

onset, or single combat, the despair of the Fatimites was

invincible; but the surrounding multitude galled them

