CHAP. XLVIII. »y

title of Augustus; an empty title, for they continued to

languish without trust or power in the solitude of the

palace. At their secret instigation, the troops of the

Anatolian theme or province approached the city on the

Asiatic side, demanded for the royal brothers, the parti­

tion or exercise of sovereignty, and supported their se­

ditious claim by a theological argument. They were

Christians (they cried), and orthodox Catholics; the

sincere votaries of the holy and undivided Trinity. Since

there are three equal persons in heaven, it is reasonable

there should be three equal persons upon earth. The

emperor invited these learned divines to a friendly con­

ference; in which they might propose their arguments

to the senate; they obeyed the summons; but the pros­

pect of their bodies hanging on a gibbet in the suburb

of Galata, reconciled their companions to the unity of the

reign of Constantine. He pardoned his brothers, and

their names were still pronounced in the public acclama­

tions; but on the repetition or suspicion of a similar

offence, the obnoxious princes were deprived of their

titles and noses, in the presence of the Catholic bishops

who were assembled at Constantinople in the sixth ge­

neral synod. In the close of his life, Pogonatus was

anxious only to establish the right of primogeniture : the

hair of his two sons, Justinian and Heraclius, was of­

fered on the shrine of St. Peter, as a symbol of their

spiritual adoption by the pope; but the elder was alone

exalted to the rank of Augustus and the assurance of the

empire.

Justinian After the decease of his father, the inheritance

^*D- of the Roman world devolved to Justinian II.

September. and the name of a triumphant lawgiver was dis­

honoured by the vices of a boy, who imitated his name­

sake only in the expensive luxury of building. His pas­

sions were strong; his understanding was feeble; and

he was intoxicated with a foolish pride, that liis birth

had given him the command of millions^ of whom the

H 2

