204 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the walls of Pavia, were the only defence of the Lom­

bards; the former were surprised, the latter were in­

vested, by the son of Pepin; and after a blockade of

Conquest two years, Desiderius, the last of their native

banty'by princes, surrendered his sceptre and his capi-

Charie- tal Under the dominion of a foreign king,

magne,' . .

A.D.774. but in the possession of their national laws, the

Lombards became the brethren rather than the subjects

of the Franks; who derived their blood, and manners,

and language, from the same Germanic origin.11

Pepin and The mutual obligations of the popes and the

Charie- Carlovingian family, form the important link of

kings of ancient and modern, of civil and ecclesiastical,

A.D. 75i. history. In the conquest of Italy, the champions

rss. 768. Qf i^e Roman church obtained a favourable oc­

casion, a specious title, the wishes of the people, the

prayers and intrigues of the clergy. But the most es­

sential gifts of the popes to the Carlovignian race were

the dignities of king of France,1 and of patrician of

Rome. I. Under the sacerdotal monarchy of St. Peter,

the nations began to resume the practice of seeking, on

the banks of the Tiber, their kings, their laws, and the

oracles of their fate. The Franks were perplexed be­

tween the name and substance of their government. All

the powers of royalty were exercised by Pepin, mayor

of the palace; and nothing, except the regal title, was

wanting to his ambition. His enemies were crushed

by his valour; his friends were multiplied by his libera­

pudiated sine aliquo crimine. Pope Stephen IV. had most furiously opposed the

alliance of a noble Frank — cum perfida, horrida, nee dicenda, ffetentissima
natione

Langobardorum — to whom he imputes the first stain of leprosy. (Cod. Carolin.

efiist. 45. p. 178, 179.) Another reason against the marriage was the
existence of

a first wife. (Muratori, Annali d'ltalia, torn. 6. p. 232, *33. 236, 237.) But

'Charlemagne indulged himself in the freedom of polygamy or concubinage.

'1 See the Annali d'ltalia of Muratori, torn. 6. and the three first
dissertations

of bis Antiquitatea Italis Medii /Kvj , torn. 1.

'Besides the common historians, three French critics, Launoy, (Opera, torn. 5.

pars 2. lib. 7. epist. 9. p. 477 — 487.) Pagi,(Critica. A.D. 751. no. 1. 6.
A.D.T5S.

no. 1-10.) and Natalis Alexander, (Hist . NoviTestamenti.dissertat. 2. p. «6—
107.)

have treated this subject of the deposition of Childeric with learning and
attention,

but with a strong bias to save the independence of the crown. Vet they are
hard

pressed by the text which they produce of Eginhard, Theophanes, and the old

annals, Laureshamemus, Fuldensis, Loisielani.

