408 ROMAN EMPIRE.

founded; the walls of Edessa and Amida, of Dara and

Nisibis, which had resisted the arms and engines of

Sapor or Nushirvan, were levelled in the dust: and the

holy city of Abgarus might vainly produce the epistle

of the image of Christ to an unbelieving conqueror. To

the west the Syrian kingdom is bounded by the sea; and

the ruin of Aradus, a small island or peninsula on the

coast, was postponed during ten years. But the hills of

Libanus abounded in timber, the trade of Phoenicia was

populous in mariners; and a fleet of seventeen hundred

barks was equipped and manned by the natives of the

desert. The imperial navy of the Romans fled before

them from the Pamphylian rocks to the Hellespont; but

the spirit of the emperor, a grandson of Heraclius, had

been subdued before the combat by a dream and a pun.'

The Saracens rode masters of the sea; and the islands

of Cyprus, Rhodes, and the Cyclades, were successively

exposed to their rapacious visits. Three hundred years

before the Christian era, the memorable, though fruit­

less, siege of Rhodes,b by Demetrius, had furnished that

maritime republic with the materials and the subject of

a trophy. A gigantic statue of Apollo, or the sun, seventy

cubits in height, was erected at the entrance of the har­

bour, a monument of the freedom and the arts of Greece.

After standing fifty-six years, the colossus of Rhodes

was overthrown by an earthquake; but the massy trunk,

and huge fragments, lay scattered eight centuries on the

ground, and are often described as one of the wonders

of the ancient world. They were collected by the

'diligence of the Saracens, and sold to a Jewish

a He dreamt that he was at Thessalonica—a harmless and unmeaning vision;

but his soothsayer or his cowardice understood the sure omen of a defeat
concealed

in that inauspicious word, e»o uXXv muir. Give to another the victory.
(Theophan.

p. 286. Zonaras, torn. 2. lib. 14. pi 88.)

h Every passage and every fact that relates to the isle, the city, and the
colossus

of Rhodes, are compiled in the laborious treatise of Meursius, who has
bestowed

the same diligence on the two larger islands of Crete and Cyprus. See in the
third

Volume of his works, the Rhodia of Meursius. (lib. 1. c. 15. p. 715—719.) The

Byzantine writers, Theophanes and Constantino, have ignorantly prolonged the

term to one thousand three hundred and sixty years, and ridiculously divide
the

weight among thirty thousand camels.

