CHAP, XLVlf. f?

Paul, The powers of government were strained in his

A,». 538. SUpport; he might appoint or displace the dukes

and tribunes of Egypt; the allowance of bread which

Diocletian had granted, was suppressed, the churches

were shut, and a nation of schismatics was deprived at

once of their spiritual and carnal food. In his turn the

tyrant Was excommunicated by the zeal and revenge of

the people; and none except bis servile Melchites would

salute him as a man, a Christian, Ot a bishop. Yet

such is the blindness of ambition, that when Paul was

expelled ofl a charge of murder1, he solicited, with a

bribe of seven hundred pounds of gold, his restoration

A to the same station of hatred and ignominy.

His successor Apollinaris entered the hostile

'city in military array, alike qualified for' prayer

or for battle. His troops, under arms, were distributed

through the streets; the gates of the cathedral were

guarded, and a chosen band was stationed in the choir,

to defend the person of their chief. He stood erect dtt

his throne, and throwing aside the upper garment of

a warrior, suddenly appeared before the eyes of the mul­

titude in the robes of patriarch of Alexandria. Astonish­

ment held them mute; but no sooner had Apollinaris

began to read the tome of St. Leo, than a volley of

curses, and invectives, and stones, assaulted the odious-

minister of the emperor and the synod. A charge was

instantly sounded by the successor of the apostles; the

soldiers waded to their knees in blood, and two hun­

dred thousand Christians are said to have fallen by the

srword ; an incredible account, even if it be extended from

tire slaughter of a day to the eighteen years of the reign

of Apollinaris. Two succeeding patriarchs, Enlogius*

h Eulogius, who had been a monk of Ant inch , was more conspicuous for
subtlety

than eloquence. He proves that the enemies of the faith, the Gaianites and
Theodo-

sians, ought not io be reconciled; that the same proposition may be orthodox
in the

muuth of St. Cyril, heretical in that of Severus; that the opposite assertions
of St.

Leo are equally trne, &£. Ilia writings are no longer extant, except in the
ex­

tracts- of Photius, who had pdrtlsed them with care and satisfaction. Cod.
-'Hi. 325

—317. 230. 880.

