498 ROMAN EMPIRE.

manners of their countrymen; with general and partial

histories, which each revolving generation supplied with

a new harvest of persons and events; with the codes and

commentaries of jurisprudence, which derived their au­

thority from the law of the prophet; with the interpre­

ters of the Koran, and orthodox tradition; and with the

whole theological tribe, polemics, mystics, scholastics,

and moralists, the first or the last of writers, according

to the different estimate of sceptics or believers. The

works of speculation or science may be reduced to the

four classes of philosophy, mathematics, astronomy, and

physic. The sages of Greece were translated and illus­

trated in the Arabic language, and some treatises, now

lost in the original, have been recovered in the versions

of the east,k which possessed and studied the writings of

Aristotle and Plato, of Euclid and Apollonius, of Ptolemy,

Hippocrates, and Galen.1 Among the ideal systems,

which have varied with the fashion of the times, the

Arabians adopted the philosophy of the Stagirite, alike

intelligible or alike obscure for the readers of every age.

Plato wrote for the Athenians, and his allegorical genius

is too closely blended with the language and religion of

Greece. After the fall of that religion, the Peripatetics

emerging from their obscurity, prevailed in the contro­

versies of the oriental sects, and their founder was long

afterward restored by the Mahometans of Spain to the

k As for instance, the fifth, sixth, and seventh books (the eighth is still
van ting)

of the Conic Sections of Apollonius PergscuS, tvhich *ete printed from the
Flo­

rence MSS. 1661. (Fabric. Bibliot , Grac. torn. t.f. 558.) Yet the fifth book

had been previously restored by the mathematical divination of Vivian!. See
bis

eloge in Fontenelle, torn. 5. p. 59, &o-)

1 The merit of these Arabic versions is freely discussed by Renaudot, (Fabric.

Bibliot. Gra-c. torn. 1. p. 812—816.) and piously defended by Gasira.
(Bibliot.

Arab. Hispana, torn. 1. p. 3S6—440.) Most of the versions of Plato, Aristotle,

Hippocrates, Galen, &c. are ascribed to Honain, a physician of the Nestorian

sect, Vho flourished at Bagdad in the court of the caliphs, and died A. D.
876.

He was at the head of a school or manufactory of translations, and the works
of

his sons and disciples were published under his name. See Abulpharagios,

(Dynast, p. 88. 115. 171—174. and Apud Asseman, Bibliot. Orient, torn. ?.

p. 438.} d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orientale, p. 456. Asseman, (Bibliot. Orient,
torn. 3.

p. 164.) and Casiri. (Bibliot. Arab. Hispana, torn. 1. p. 238, &c. 251.
386—990.

303. 304, &c.)

