CHAP. L. 291

to himself or his disciples, is uncreated and eternal;

subsisting in the essence of the Deity, and inscribed

with a pen of light on the table of his everlasting de­

crees. A paper copy, in a volume of silk and gems, was

brought down to the lowest heaven by the angel Gabriel,

who, under the Jewish economy, had indeed been dis­

patched on the most important errands; and this trusty

messenger successively revealed the chapters and verses

to the Arabian prophet. Instead of a perpetual and

perfect measure of the divine will, the fragments of the

Koran were produced at the discretion of Mahomet:

each revelation is suited to the emergencies of his policy

or passion; and all contradiction is removed by the sav­

ing maxim, that any text of Scripture is abrogated or

modified by any subsequent passage. The word of

God, and of the apostle, was diligently recorded by his

disciples on palm-leaves and the shoulder-bones of mut­

ton; and the pages, without order or connexion, were

cast into a domestic chest in the custody of one of his

wives. Two years after the death of Mahomet, the sa­

cred volume was collected and published by his friend

and successor Abubeker: the work was revised by the

caliph Othman, in the thirtieth year of the Hegira; and

the various editions of the Koran assert the same mi­

raculous privilege of a uniform and incorruptible text.

In the spirit of enthusiasm or vanity, the prophet rests

the truth of his mission on the merit of his book, auda­

ciously challenges both men and angels to imitate the

beauties of a single page, and presumes to assert that

God alone could dictate this incomparable performance."

This argument is most powerfully addressed to a devout

Arabian, whose mind is attuned to faith and rapture,

whose ear is delighted by the music of sounds, and whose

ignorance is incapable of comparing the productions of

human genius." The harmony and copiousness of style

'Koran, c. 17. 5. 89. In Sale, p. 255, 236. In Maracci, p. 410.

* Vet a sect of Arabians was persuaded, that it might be equalled or surpassed,  
by a human pen; (Pocock, Specimen, p. 221. &c.) and Maracci (th$ polemic ii

U 2

