2Ifi ROMAN EMPIRE.

neral liberty of speech and practice; and the only vir­

tue of his reign is accused by the monks as the cause

of his temporal and eternal perdition. Superstition and

weakness formed the character of Michael I. but the

saints and images were incapable of supporting their vo­

tary on the throne. In the purple, Leo V. asserted the

name and religion of an Armenian; and the idols, with

their seditious adherents, were condemned to a second

exile. Their applause would have sanctified the murder

of an impious tyrant; but his assassin and successor, the

second Michael, was tainted from his birth with the Phry­

gian heresies: he attempted to mediate between the con­

tending parties; and the intractable spirit of the Catho­

lics insensibly cast him into the opposite scale. His mo­

deration was guarded by timidity; but his son Theophi-

lus, alike ignorant of fear and pity, was the last and most

cruel of the Iconoclasts. The enthusiasm of the times

ran strongly against them: and the emperors, who stem­

med the torrent, were exasperated and punished by the

public hatred. After the death of Theophilus the final

victory of the images was achieved by a second female,

his widow Theodora, whom he left the guardian of the

empire. Her measures were bold and decisive. The

fiction of a tardy repentance absolved the fame and the

soul of her deceased husband ; the sentence of the Icono­

clast patriarch was commuted from the loss of his eyes

to a whipping of two hundred lashes: the bishops trem­

bled, the monks shouted, and the festival of orthodoxy

preserves the annual memory of the triumph of the

images. A single question yet remained, whether they

are endowed with any proper and inherent sanctity; it

was agitated by the Greeks of the eleventh century;™

and as this opinion has the strongest recommendation of

absurdity, I am surprised that it was not more explicitly

decided in the affirmative. In the west, pope Hadrian I.

"' See an account of this controversy in the Alerius of Anna Comnena (lib. 5.

p. 199.)and Mosheirn. (Institut. Hist. Eccles. p. 371, 37*.)

