422 ROMAN EMPIRE.

extant, had perused and compared the writings of their

predecessors;' nor can it fairly be presumed that any

important truth, any useful discovery in art or nature,

has been snatched away from the curiosity of modern

ages.

., . In the administration of Egypt,11 Amrou ba-

Admini- OJ r

stration of lanced the demands of justice and policy: the

gypt' interest of the people of the law, who were de­

fended by God; and of the people of the alliance, who

were protected by man. In the recent tumult of con­

quest and deliverance, the tongue of the Copts and the

sword of the Arabs were most adverse to the tranquillity

of the province. To the former, Amrou declared, that

faction and falsehood would be doubly chastised; by the

punishment of the accusers, whom he should detest as

his personal enemies, and by the promotion of their inno­

cent brethren, whom their envy had laboured to injure

and supplant. He excited the latter by the motives of

religion and honour to sustain the dignity of their cha­

racter, to endear themselves by a modest and temperate

conduct to God and the caliph, to spare and protect a

people who had trusted to their faith, and to content

themselves with the legitimate and splendid rewards of

their victory. In the management of the revenue he

disapproved the simple but oppressive mode of a capi­

tation, and preferred with reason a proportion of taxes,

deducted on ev^ery branch from the clear profits of agri­

culture and commerce. A third part of the tribute was

appropriated to the annual repairs of the dikes and canals,

so essential to the public welfare. Under his admini­

stration the fertility of Egypt supplied the dearth of

'Such as Galon, Pliny, Aristotle, &c. On this subject Wotton (Reflections on

Ancient and Modern Learning, p. 83—95.) argues with solid sense against the

lively exotic fancies of sir William Temple. The contempt of the Greeks for

barbaric science, would scarcely admit the Indian or Ethiopia books into the
library

of Alexandria; nor is it proved that philosophy has sustained any real loss
from

their exclusion.

k This curious and authentic intelligence of Murtadi (p. 284—289.) has not
been

discovered either by Ockley, or by the self-sufficient compilers of the Modern
lini-

yersal History.

