CHAP. XLIX. 205

lity; his father had been the saviour of Christendom;

and the claims of personal merit were repeated and

ennobled in a descent of four generations. The name

and image of royalty were still preserved in the last

descendant of Clovis, the feeble Childeric; but his ob足

solete right could only be used as an instrument of

sedition: the nation was desirous of restoring the sim足

plicity of the constitution; and Pepin, a subject and a

prince, was ambitious to ascertain his own rank and the

fortune of his family. The mayor and the nobles were

bound, by an oath of fidelity, to the royal phantom:

the blood of Clovis was pure and sacred in their eyes;

and their common ambassadors addressed the Roman

pontiff, to dispel their scruples, or to absolve their pro足

mise. The interest of pope Zachary, the successor of

the two Gregories, prompted him to decide, and to

decide in their favour: he pronounced that the nation

might lawfully unite, in the same person, the title and

authority of king; and that the unfortunate Childeric,

a victim of the public safety, should be degraded,

shaved, and confined in a monastery for the remainder

of his days. An answer so agreeable to their wishes

was accepted by the Franks, as the opinion of a casuist,

the sentence of a judge, or the oracle of a prophet: the

Merovingian race disappeared from the earth; and

Pepin was exalted on a buckler by the suffrage of a

free people, accustomed to obey his laws and to march

under his standard. His coronation was twice per足

formed, with the sanction of the popes, by their most

faithful servant St. Boniface, the apostle of Germany,

and by the grateful hands of Stephen HI. who, in the

monastery of St. Denys, placed the diadem on the head

of his benefactor. The royal unction of the kings of

Israel was dexterously applied,"1 the successor of St. Peter

k Not absolutely for the first time. On a less conspicuous theatre it had been

used, in the sixth and seventh centuries, by the provincial bishops of Britain
and

Spain. The royal unction of Constantinople was borrowed from the Latins in the

hvst age of the empire. Coostantine Manasses mentions that of Charlemagne as a

