CHAP. XLIX. 243

has accused the second Otho of a perfidious and bloody

act, the massacre of the senators, whom he had invited

to his table under the fair semblance of hospitality and

friendship." In the minority of his son Otho III.,

Rome made a bold attempt to shake off the Saxon yoke,

and the consul Crescentius was the Brutus of

Id Cres?"" ti1e republic. From the condition of a subject

census, and an exile, he twice rose to the command of

A.D.998. i

the city, oppressed, expelled, and created the

popes, and formed a conspiracy for restoring the autho­

rity of the Greek emperors. In the fortress of St. Anr

gelo, he maintained an obstinate siege, till the unfortu­

nate consul was betrayed by a promise of safety: his

body was suspended on a gibbet, and his head was

exposed on the battlements of the castle. By a reverse

of fortune, Otho, after separating his troops, was be­

sieged three days, without food, in his palace; and a

disgraceful escape saved him from the justice or fury

of the Romans. The senator Ptolemy was the leader

of the people, and the widow of Crescentius enjoyed

the pleasure or the fame of revenging her husband by

a poison which she administered to her imperial lover.

It was the design of Otho III. to abandon the ruder

countries of the north, to erect his throne in Italy, and

to revive the institutions of the Roman monarchy. But

his successors only once in their lives appeared on the

banks of the Tiber, to receive their crown in the Vati­

can.11 Their absence was contemptible, their presence

odious and formidable. They descended from the

Alps, at the head of their barbarians, who were stran­

gers and enemies to the country; and their transient

* Thia bloody feast is described in Leonine verse in the Pantheon of Godfrey of  
Viterbo, (Script. Ital. torn. 7. p. 436, 437.) who flourished towards the end
of the

twelfth century; (Fabricius, Bibliot. Latin, med. et infimi tEvi, torn. 3. p.
69.

edit Mansi) but his evidence, which imposed on Sigonius, is reasonably
suspected

by Muratori. (Annali, torn. 8. p. 177.)

* The coronation of the emperor, and some original ceremonies of the tenth  
century, are preserved in the Panegyric on Berengarius, (Script. Ital. torn.
2.

pare i. 405—414.) illustrated by the notes of Hadrian, Valerius, and Leibnitz.

Sigonius has related the whole process of the Roman expedition in good Latin,

but with some errors of time and fact. (lib. 7. p. 441—146.)

K2

