CHAP. L. 347

with vigour and address; and his son Yezid, a feeble

and dissolute youth, was proclaimed as the commander

of the faithful and the successor of the apostle of God.

Death of A familiar story is related of the benevolence

A^ixeao of one of the sons of Ali. In serving at table, a

Oct. 10. slave had inadvertently dropped a dish of scald­

ing broth on his master: the heedless wretch fell pros­

trate, to deprecate his punishment, and repeated a verse

of the Koran. Paradise is far those who command their

anger.—I am not angry.—And for those who pardon of­

fences.—I pardon your offence.—And for those who re­

turn good for evil.—I give you your liberty, and four

hundred pieces of silver. With an equal measure of

piety, Hosein, the younger brother of Hassan, inherited

a remnant of his father's spirit, and served with honour

against the Christians in the siege of Constantinople.

The primogeniture of the line of Hashem, and the holy

character of grandson of the apostle, had centred in his

person, and he was at liberty to prosecute his claim

against Yezid, the tyrant of Damascus, whose vices he

despised, and whose title he had never deigned to ac­

knowledge. A list was secretly transmitted from Cufa

to Medina, of one hundred and forty thousand Moslems,

who professed their attachment to his cause, and who

were eager to draw their swords as soon as he should

appear on the banks of the Euphrates. Against the

advice of his wisest friends, he resolved to trust hi$ person

and family in the hands of a perfidious people. He tra­

versed the desert of Arabia with a timorous retinue of

women and children; but as he approached the confines

of Irak, he was alarmed by the solitary or hostile face of

the country, and suspected either the defection or ruin

of his party. His fears were just: Obeidollah, the go­

vernor of Cufa, had extinguished the first sparks of an

insurrection; and Hosein, in the plain of Kerbela, was

encompassed by a body of five thousand horse, who in<-

tercepted his communication with the city and the river.

