312 ROMAN EMPIRE.

achieved in ten years by himself or his lieutenants. The

Arab continued to unite the professions of a merchant

and a robber; and his petty excursions for the defence

or the attack of a caravan, insensibly prepared his troops

for the conquest of Arabia. The distribution of the

spoil was regulated by a divine law:' the whole was

faithfully collected in one common mass: a fifth of the

gold and silver, the prisoners and cattle, the moveables

and immoveables, was reserved by the prophet for piotis

and charitable uses j the remainder was shared in ade­

quate portions, by the soldiers who had obtained the

victory or guarded the camp; the rewards of the slain

devolved to their widows and orphans; and the increase

of cavalry was encouraged by the allotment of a double

share to the horse and to the man. From all sides the

roving Arabs were allured to the standard of religion

and plunder: the apostle sanctified the licence of em­

bracing the female captives as their wives or concubines;

and the enjoyment of wealth and beauty was a feeble

type of the joys of paradise prepared for the valiant

martyrs of the faith. The sword (says Mahomet) is the

key of heaven and of hell; a drop of blood shed in the

cause of God, a night spent in arms, is of more avail than

two months of fasting or prayer: whoever falls in battle,

his sins are forgiven: at the day of judgment his wounds

shall be resplendent as vermilion and odoriferous as musk;

and the loss of his limbs shall be supplied by the wings of

angels and cherubim. The intrepid souls of the Arabs

were fired with enthusiasm: the picture of the invisible

world was strongly painted on their imagination; and

the death which they had always despised became an

object of hope and desire. The Koran inculcates, in the

most absolute sense, the tenets of fate and pedestination,

with a large white standard, a black banner, (p. 335.) twenty horses, (p.
322.) &c.

Two of his martial sayings are recorded by tradition. (Gagnier, torn. 2.

1 The whole subject de jure belli Mohammedanorum, is exhausted in a separate

dissertation by the learned Reland. (Dissertationes Miscellanea!, torn. 3.
Dissert.

