114 ROMAN EMPIRE.

throne and treasures which she resigned, solicited a de­

cent and honourable retreat. His avarice refused this

modest compensation; and in her exile to the isle of

Lesbos, the empress earned a scanty subsistence by the

labours of her distaff.

Nicepho- Many tyrants have reigned undoubtedly more

AsD 802 criminal than Nicephorus, but none perhaps

Oct. 31. have more deeply incurred the universal abhor­

rence of their people. His character was stained with

the three odious vices of hypocrisy, ingratitude, and

avarice; his want of virtue was not redeemed by any

superior talents, nor his want of talents, by any pleas­

ing qualifications. Unskilful and unfortunate in war,

Nicephorus was vanquished by the Saracens, and slain

by the Bulgarians; and the advantage of his death

overbalanced, in the public opinion, the destruction of

a Roman army. His son and heir Stauracius

A.D.en,' escaped from the field with a mortal wound:

11)7 25' yet six months of an expiring life were suffi­

cient to refute his indecent, though popular declara­

tion, that he would in all things avoid the example of

his father. On the near prospect of his decease, Mi­

chael, the great master of the palace, and the husband

of his sister Procopia, was named by every person of

the palace and city, except by his envious brother.

Tenacious of a sceptre, now falling from his hand, he

conspired against the life of his successor, and che­

rished the idea of changing to a democracy the Roman

empire. But these rash projects served only to inflame

the zeal of the people, and to remove the scruples of the

Michaeli. candidate: Michael I. accepted the purple, and

A?IX!u!' before he sunk into the grave, the son of Ni-

October*. cephorus implored the clemency of his new so­

vereign. Had Michael in an age of peace ascended an

hereditary throne, he might have reigned and died the

father of his people: but his mild virtues were adapted

to the shade of private life, nor was he capable of con­

