CHAP. XLVII. 71

and Armenians, who forgot their disputes, and mingled

their tears over the grave of an enemy. The sect which

was honoured by the virtues of Abulpharagius, appears,

however, to sink below the level of their Nestorian

brethren. The superstition of the Jacobites is more

abject, their fasts more rigid,q their intestine divisions

are more numerous, and their doctors (as far as I can

measure the degrees of nonsense) are more remote from

the precincts of reason. Something may possibly be

allowed for the rigour of the Monophysite theology ;r

much more for the superior influence of the monastic

order. In Syria, in Egypt, in Ethiopia, the Jacobite

monks have ever been distinguished by the austerity of

their penance and the absurdity of their legends. Alive

or dead they are worshipped as the favourites of the

Deity; the crosier of bishop and patriarch is reserved

for their venerable hands; and they assume the govern­

ment of men, while they are yet reeking with the habits

and prejudices of the cloister.

in.THE ^' ^n the sty^e of t^e oriental Christians,

the Monothelites of every age are described

under the appellation of Maronites,* a name

which has been insensibly transferred from a hermit to

a monastery, from a monastery to a nation. Maron, a

saint or savage of the fifth century, displayed his reli­

gious madness in Syria; the rival cities of Apameaand

Emesa disputed his relics, a stately church was erected

on his tomb, and six hundred of his disciples united

their solitary cells on the banks of the Orontes. On

the controversies of the incarnation, they nicely threaded

i This excessive abstinence is censored by La Croze, (p. 352.) and even by the

Syrian Assemannus, (torn. 1. p. 226. torn. 2. p. 304, 305.)

'The state of the Monophysites is excellently illustrated in a dissertation at
the

beginning of the second volume of Assemannus, which contains one hundred and

forty-two pages. The Syriac Chronicle of Gregory Bar-Hebraus, or Abulphara­

gius, (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 321—463.) pursues the double series of the
Nes­

torian Catholics, and the maphrians of the Jacobites.

'The synonymous use of the two words may be proved from Eutychius, (An­

na1, torn. Z. p. 191. 207. 333.) and many similar passages which may be found
in

the methodical table of Pocock. He was not actuated by any prejudice against

tiie Maronites of the tenth century; and we may believe a Mclchite, whose
testi­

mony is confirmed by the Jacobins and Latins.

