CHAP. XLIX. 239

their tyrants; and such was their indigence after the

loss and usurpation of the ecclesiastical patrimonies,

that they could neither support the state of a prince,

nor exercise the charity of a priest." The influence of

two sister prostitutes, Marozia and Theodora, was

founded on their wealth and beauty, their political and

amorous intrigues; the most strenuous of their lovers

was rewarded with the Roman mitre, and their reign0

may have suggested to the darker agesp the fableq of a

female pope/ The bastard son, the grandson, and the

great grandson, of Marozia, a rare genealogy, were

seated in the chair of St. Peter, and it was at the age

of nineteen years that the second of these became the

head of the Latin church. His youth and manhood

were of a suitable complexion; and the nations of pil­

grims could bear testimony to the charges that were

urged against him in a Roman synod, and in the pre-

n The oppression and vices of the Roman church in the tenth century are

strongly painted in the history and legation of Liutprand; (see p. 440. 450.
471

—47&, 479, &c.) and it ia whimsical enough to observe Muratori tempering

the invectives of Baronius against the popes. But these popes had been chosen,

not by the cardinals, but by lay-patrons.

• The time of pope Joan (pupusa Joanna) is placed somewhat earlier than Theo­

dora or Marozia; and the two years of her imaginary reign are forcibly
inserted

between Leo IV. and Benedict III. But the contemporary Anastasius indissolu-

bly links the death of Leo and the elevation of Benedict: (iUico, mox, p.
247.)

and the accurate chronology of Pagi, Muratori, and Leibnitz, fixes both events
to

the year 867.

P The advocates for pope Joan produce one hundred and fifty witnesses, or ra­

ther echoes, of the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries. They bear
tes­

timony against themselves and the legend, by multiplying the proof that so
curi­

ous a story must have been repeated by writers of every description to whom it

was known. On those of the ninth and tenth centuries, the recent event would

have flashed with a double force. Would Photius have spared such a reproach?

Could Liutprand have missed such scandal'! It is scarcely worth while
todiscuss

the various readings of Martinus Folonus, Sigebert of Gemblouis, or even
Maria-

nus Scotus; but a most palpable forgery is the passage of pope Joan, which has

been foisted into some MSS. and editions of the Roman Anastasius.

1 As fatte, it deserves that name; but I would not pronounce it incredible.

Suppose a famous French chevalier of our own times to have been born in Italy,

and educated in the church, instead of the army: her merit nr fortune might
havo

raised her to St. Peter's chair; her amours would have been natural; her
delivery

in the streets unlucky, but not improbable.

'Till the Reformation, the tale was repeated and believed without offence; and

Joan's female statue long occupied her place among the popes in the cathedral
of

Sienna. (Pagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 624—6?6.) She has been annihilated by

two learned Protestants, Blondel and Baylo (Dictionnaire Critique, PAPZssE,

Poiosus, BLOKDEL); but their brethren were scandalized by this equitable and

generous criticisrn. Spanheim and Lenfant attempt to save this poor engine of

controversy; and even Mosheim condescends to cherish some doubt and suspi­

cion, (p. 189.)

