4.30 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Cabes and Tripoli. The arms of Hassan were bolder

and more fortunate; he reduced and pillaged the metro­

polis of Africa; and the mention of scaling-ladders may

justify the suspicion that he anticipated, by a sudden as­

sault, the more tedious operations of a regular siege.

But the joy of the conquerors was soon disturbed by the

appearance of the Christian succours. The prefect and

patrician John, a general of experience and renown, em­

barked at Constantinople the forces of the eastern em­

pire ;* they were joined by the ships and soldiers of Si­

cily, and a powerful reinforcement of Goths" was ob­

tained from the fears and religion of the Spanish mo­

narch. The weight of the confederate navy broke the

chain that guarded the entrance of the harbour; the

Arabs retired to Cairoan, or Tripoli; the Christians

landed; the citizens hailed the ensign of the cross, and

the winter was idly wasted in the dream of victory or

deliverance. But Africa was irrecoverably lost; the zeal

and resentment of the commander of the faithful1 pre­

pared in the ensuing spring a more numerous armament

by sea and land; and the patrician in his turn was com­

pelled to evacuate the post and fortifications of Carthage.

A second battle was fought in the neighbourhood of

Utica: the Greeks and Goths were again defeated; and

their timely embarkation saved them from the sword of

'AIWTIC; . .. ilrav-ra Ta "PaJ.ualXJ lJ»wMs-| irXoi/ua, fffarrrya -n Mr'
atrrci; Iiaii-r

rov narguun, iiumtgov, rav wcAIui&'V iFpxtiprafJttm; flfo; Kflpp^nJora Kara
rttl Jspstcrt*T

i£in/u-4.<v. Nicephori Constantinopolitani Breviar. p. 28. The patriarch of
Constan­

tinople, with Theophanes, (Chronograph, p. 309.) hare slightly mentioned this
last

attempt for the relief of Africa. Pagi (Critica, torn. 3. p. 129.141.) has
nicely as­

certained the chronology by a strict comparison of the Arabic and Byzantine
his­

torians, who often disagree both in time and fact. See likewise a note of
Otter,

(p. 121.)

0 Dove s'erano ridotti i nobili Romani e i Gotti; and afterward, i Romani sag-

girono ei Gotti, lasciarono Carthagine. (Leo African, fol. 72. recto.) I know
not

from what Arabic writer the African derived his Goths: but the fact, though
new,

is so interesting and so probable, that I will accept it on the slightest
authority.

1 This commander is styled by Nicephorus awiXeu; Zaptuuivor, a vague, though,

not improper, definition, of the caliph. Theophanes introduces the strange
appella­

tion of irjoTM-i-yxScXe; which his interpreter lioar explains by Vizir Aztm.
They

may approach the truth, in assigning the active part to the minister, rather
than

the prince; bat they forget that the Ommiades had only a hittb, or secretary,
and

that the office of vizier was not revived or instituted till the one hundred
and thir­

ty-second year of the Hegira. (D'Herbclot, p. 9,12 )

