CHAP. LI. 359

of the earth. When Abubeker assumed the office of

caliph, he enjoined his daughter Ayesha to take a strict

account of his private patrimony, that it might be evi­

dent whether he were enriched or impoverished by the

service of the state. He thought himself entitled to a

stipend of three pieces of gold, with the sufficient main­

tenance of a single camel and a black slave; but on the

Friday of each week, he distributed the residue of his

own and the public money, first to the most worthy, and

then to the most indigent, of the Moslems. The remains

of his wealth, a coarse garment, and five pieces of gold,

were delivered to his successor, who lamented with a

modest sigh his own inability to equal such an admir­

able model. Yet the abstinence and humanity of Omar

were not inferior to the virtues of Abubeker: his food

consisted of barley-bread or dates; his drink was water:

he preached in a gown that was torn or tattered in twelve

places; and a Persian satrap who paid his homage to

the conqueror, found him asleep among the beggars on

the steps of the mosch of Medina. Economy is the

source of liberality, and the increase, of the revenue en­

abled Omar to establish, a just and perpetual reward for

the past and present services of the faithful. Careless

of bis own emolument, he assigned to Abbas, the uncle

of the prophet, the first and most ample allowance of

twenty-five thousand drachms or pieces of silver. Five

thousand were allotted to each of the aged warriors, the

relics of the field of Beder, and the last and meanest of

the companions of Mahomet was distinguished by the

annual reward of three thousand pieces. One thousand

was the stipend of the veterans who had fought in the

first battles against the Greeks and Persians, and the de­

creasing pay, as low as fifty pieces of silver, was adapted

to the respective merit and seniority of the soldiers of

Omar. Under his reign, and that of his predecessor,

the conquerors of the east were the trusty servants of

God and the people: the mass of the public treasure

