CHAP. XLVIII. 157

boar in the valley of Anazarbus, and had fixed his jave­

lin in the body of the furious animal: but, in the strug­

gle, a poisoned arrow dropped from his quiver, and a

slight wound in his hand, which produced a mortifica­

tion, was fatal to the best and greatest of the Comne-

nian princes.

A premature death had swept away the two

A.aD.ii43, eldest sons of John the Handsome; of the two

Aprils. survivorS, Isaac and Manuel, his judgment or

affection preferred the younger; and the choice of their

dying prince was ratified by the soldiers, who had ap­

plauded the valour of his favourite in the Turkish war.

The faithful Axuch hastened to the capital, secured the

person of Isaac in honourable confinement, and pur­

chased with a gift of two hundred pounds of silver, the

leading ecclesiastics of St. Sophia, who possessed a de­

cisive voice in the consecration of an emperor. With

his veteran and affectionate troops, Manuel soon visit­

ed Constantinople; his brother acquiesced in the title

of Sebastocrator; his subjects admired the lofty stature

and martial graces of their new sovereign, and listened

with credulity to the flattering promise, that he blended

the wisdom of age with the activity and vigour of youth.

By the experience of his government, they were taught,

that he emulated the spirit, and shared the talents, of

his father, whose social virtues were buried in the

grave. A reign of thirty-seven years is filled by a per­

petual though various warfare against the Turks, the

Christians, and the hordes of the wilderness beyond

the Danube. The arms of Manuel were exercised on

mount Taurus, in the plains of Hungary, on the coast

of Italy and Egypt, and on the seas of Sicily and

Greece: the influence of his negotiations extended from

Jerusalem to Rome and Russia; and the Byzantine

monarchy, for awhile, became an object of respect or

terror to the powers of Asia and Europe. Educated

in the silk and purple of the east, Manuel possessed

