200 ROMAN EMPIRE.

guarded the patrimony of St. Peter from the calamities

of war; if the Christians, who visited the holy thresh­

old, would have sheathed their swords in the presence

of the apostle and his successor. But this mystic circle

could have been traced only by the wand of a legislator

and a sage; this pacific system was incompatible with

the zeal and ambition of the popes; the Romans were

not addicted, like the inhabitants of Elis, to the inno­

cent and placid labours of agriculture; and the barbari­

ans of Italy, though softened by the climate, were far

below the Grecian states in the institutions of public

and private life. A memorable example of repentance

and piety was exhibited by Liutprand, king of the

Lombards. In arms, at the gate of the Vatican, the con­

queror listened to the voice of Gregory II.b withdrew

his troops, resigned his conquests, respectfully visited

the church of St. Peter, and after performing his devo­

tions, offered his sword and dagger, his cuirass and

mantle, his silver cross and bis crown of gold, on the

tomb of the apostle. But this religious fervour was the

illusion, perhaps the artifice, of the moment; the sense

of interest is strong and lasting; the love of arms and

rapine was congenial to the Lombards; and both the

prince and people were irresistibly tempted by the dis­

orders of Italy, the nakedness of Rome, and the unwar-

like profession of her new chief. On the first edicts of

the emperor, they declared themselves the champions of

the holy images; Liutprand invaded the province of

Romagna, which had already assumed that distinctive

appellation; the Catholics of the exarchate yielded with­

out reluctance to his civil and military power; and a

foreign enemy was introduced for the first time into the

impregnable fortress of Ravenna. That city and fortress

were speedily recovered by the active diligence and ma­

ritime forces of the Venetians; and those faithful sub-

edition in duodecimo), and the judicious reflections of Polybius. (torn. 1.
lib. 4.

p. 466. edit. Gionov.)

b The speech of Gregory to the Lombard is finely composed by Sigonius, (de

Rpgno lialnr, lib. 3. Opera, torn. '-'. p. 173.) who imitates the licence and
the

•pint of Sallust or Liw.

