CHAP. LI.; 391

/ dare not go back; our foes are many, our danger is

great, but our reward is splendid and secure, either in

this life or in the life to come. Let every man, accord­

ing to his inclination, advance or retire. Not a Mussul­

man deserted his standard. Lead the way (said Abdallah

to his Christian guide), and you shall see what the com­

panions of the prophet can perform. They charged in

five squadrons; but after the first advantage of the sur­

prise, they were encompassed and almost overwhelmed

by the multitude of their enemies; and their valiant band

is fancifully compared to a white spot in the skin of a

black camel.' About the hour of sunset, when their

weapons dropped from their hands, when they panted

on the verge of eternity, they discovered an approaching

cloud of dust; they heard the welcome sound of the

tecbir," and they soon perceived the standard of Caled,

who flew to their relief with the utmost speed of his ca­

valry. The Christians were broken by his attack, and

slaughtered in their flight, as far as the river of Tripoli.

They left behind them the various riches of the fair; the

merchandises that were exposed for sale, the money that

was brought for purchase, the gay decorations of the

nuptials, and the governor's daughter, with forty of her

female attendants. The fruits, provisions, and furniture,

the money, plate, and jewels, were diligently laden on

the backs of horses, asses, and mules; and the holy rob­

bers returned in triumph to Damascus. The hermit,

after a short and angry controversy with Caled, declined

the crown of martyrdom, and was left alive in the soli­

tary scene of blood and devastation.

'I am bolder than Mr. Ockley, (vol. 1. p. 194.) who dares not insert this
figu­

rative expression in the text, though he observes in a marginal note, that the
Ara­

bians often borrow their similies from that useful and familiar animal. The
rein­

deer may be equally famous in the songe of the Laplanders.

"We heard the tecbir; so the Arabs call

Their shout of onset, when with loud appeal

They challenge heaven, as if demanding conquest.

- This word, so formidable in their holy wars, is a verb active (says Ockley in his  
index) of the second conjugation, from Kabbara, which signifies saying Alia
Aciar!

God is most mighty!

