292 ROMAN EMPIRE.

will not reach, in a version, the European infidel: he

will peruse with impatience the endless incoherent rhap­

sody of fable, and precept, and declamation, which sel­

dom excites a sentiment or an idea, which sometimes

crawls in the dust, and is sometimes lost in the clouds.

The divine attributes exalt the fancy of the Arabian

missionary; but his loftiest strains must yield to the

sublime simplicity of the book of Job, composed in a

remote age, in the same country, and in the same lan­

guage.'1 If the composition of the Koran exceed the

faculties of a man, to what superior intelligence should

we ascribe the Iliad of Homer or the Philippics of De­

mosthenes? In all religions, the life of the founder sup­

plies the silence of his written revelation: the sayings

of Mahomet were so many lessons of truth; his actions

so many examples of virtue; and the public and private

memorials were preserved by his wives and companions.

At the end of two hundred years, the Sonna, or oral

law, was fixed and consecrated by the labours of AI

Bochari, who discriminated seven thousand two hundred

and seventy-five traditions, from a mass of three hun­

dred thousand reports, of a more doubtful or spurious

character. Each day the pious author prayed in the

temple of Mecca, and performed his ablutions with the

water of Zemzem; the pages were successively depo­

sited on the pulpit, and the sepulchre of the apostle;

and the work has been approved by the four orthodox

sects of the Sonnites.0

The mission of the ancient prophets, of Moses,

and of Jesus, had been confirmed by many

too hard for the translator) derides the rhyming affectation of the most
applauded

passage, (torn. 1. part 2. p. 69—75.)

b Colloquia (whether real or fabulous) in media Arabia atque ab Arabibus

habita. (Lowth. de Poesi Hebraorum Prelect. 32—34. with his German editor

Michaelis, Epimetron 4.) Yet Michael is (p. 671—673.) has detected man;

Egyptian images, the elephantiasis, papyrus, Nile, crocodile, &c. The langusge

is ambiguously styled, Arabico-Hebrea. The resemblance of the sister dialects
was

much more visible in their childhood than in their mature age. (Michaelis, p.
68!.

Schultens, in Prafat. Job.)

c Al Bochari died A. H. 224. See d'Herbelot, p. 208. 416. 827. Gagnier, Not.

ad Abulfed. c. 19. p. 33.

