330 ROMAN EMPIRE.

his faults and virtues, that I should decide whether the

title of enthusiast or impostor more properly belongs to

that extraordinary man. Had I been intimately con­

versant with the son of Abdallah, the task would still

be difficult, and the success uncertain: at the distance

of twelve centuries, I darkly contemplate his shade

through a cloud of religious incense; and could I truly

delineate the portrait of an hour, the fleeting resemblance

would not equally apply to the solitary of mount Hera,

to the preacher of Mecca, and to the conqueror of Arabia.

The author of a mighty revolution appears to have been

endowed with a pious and contemplative disposition:

so soon as marriage had raised him above the pressure

of want, he avoided the paths of ambition and avarice;

and, till the age of forty, he lived with innocence, and

would have died without a name. The unity of God is

an idea most congenial to nature and reason; and a

slight conversation with the Jews and Christians would

teach him to despise and detest the idolatry of Mecca.

It was the duty of a man and a citizen to impart the

doctrine of salvation, to rescue his country from the do­

minion of sin and error. The energy of a mind inces­

santly bent on the same object, would convert a general

obligation into a particular call; the warm suggestions

of the understanding or the fancy, would be felt as the

inspirations of heaven; the labour of thought would ex­

pire in rapture and vision; and the inward sensation,

the invisible monitor, would be described with the form

and attributes of an angel of God.q From enthusiasm

to imposture, the step is perilous and slippery: the de­

mon of Socratesr affords a memorable instance, how a

t The Christians, rashly enough, have assigned to Mahomet a tarn* pigeon, that

seemed to descend from heaven and whisper in his ear. As this pretended
miracle

is urged by Grotius (de Veritate Religions Christianae), hu Arabic translator,
the

learned Pocock, inquired of him the names of bis authors ; and Grotius
confessed,

that it is unknown to the Mahometans themselves. Lest it should provoke their

indignation and laughter, the pious lie is suppressed in the Arabic version .
bat it

has maintained an edifying place in the numerous editions of die Lai iu text.
< I'o-

cock, Specimen, Hist. Arabum, p. 186,187. Reland, de Religion. Moharn. lib. f.

c. 39. p. 259—62.)

'

