CHAP. LI. 451

son of Nassir, and Theodemir, prince of the Goths. In

the name of the most merciful God, Abdelaziz makes

peace on these conditions: that Theodemir shall not be

disturbed in his principality: nor any injury be offered

to the life or property, the wives and children, the reli­

gion and temples, of the Christians: that Theodemir

shall freely deliver his seven cities, Orihuela, Valentola,

Alicant, Mola, Vacasora, Bigerra (now Bejar), Ora (or

Opta), and Lorca: that he shall not assist or entertain

the enemies of the caliph, but shall faithfully communi­

cate his knowledge of their hostile designs : that himself,

and each of the Gothic nobles, shall annually pay one

piece of gold, four measures of wheat, as many of bar­

ley, with a certain proportion of honey, oil, and vinegar;

and that each of their vassals shall be taxed at one moiety

of the said imposition. Given the fourth of Regeb, in

the year of the Hegira ninety-four, and subscribed with

the names of four Mussulman witnesses. "b Theodemir

and his subjects were treated with uncommon lenity:

but the rate of tribute appears to have fluctuated from a

tenth to a fifth, according to the submission or obstinacy

of the Christians.0 In this revolution, many partial ca­

lamities were inflicted by the carnal or religious passions

of the enthusiasts; some churches were profaned by the

new worship; some relics or images were confounded

with idols; the rebels were put to the sword; and one

town (an obscure place between Cordova and Seville)

was rased to its foundations. Yet if we compare the in­

vasion of Spain by the Goths, or its recovery by the

11 See the treaty in Arabic and Latin, in the Bibliotheca Arabico-Hispana,
torn.

2. p. 105,106. It is signed the 4th of the month of Regeb, A. H. 94, the 5th
of

April, A. D. 713; a date which seems to prolong the resistance of Theodemir
and

the government of Musa.

c From the history of Sandoval, p. 87. Fleury (Kist. Eccles. torn. 9.p. 261.)
has

given the substance of another treaty concluded A. A'.. C. 781, A.D.784,
between

an Arabian chief, and the Goths and Romans, of the territory of Conimbra in
Por­

tugal. The tax of the churches is filed at twenty-fire pounds of gold; of the
mona­

steries, fifty; of the cathedrals, one hundred: the Christians are judged by
their

count, but in capital cases he must consult the alcaide. The church-doors must

be shut, and they must respect the name of Mahomet. I have not the original

before me; it would confirm or destroy a dark suspicion, that the piece had
been

forged to introduce the immunity of a neighbouring convent. .'

2 G 2

