CHAP. LII. 521

timid persecution assisted the progress of the new sect,

and the name of the prophet became more revered after

his person had been withdrawn from the world. His

twelve apostles dispersed themselves among the Be-

doweens, a race of men (says Abulfeda) equally devoid

of reason and religion; and the success of their preach­

ing seemed to threaten Arabia with a new revolution.

The Carmathians were ripe for rebellion, since they

disclaimed the title of the house of Abbas, and ab­

horred the worldly pomp of the caliphs of Bagdad.

They were susceptible of discipline, since they vowed a

blind and absolute submission to their imam, who was

called to the prophetic office by the voice of God and

the people. Instead of the legal tithes, he claimed the

fifth of their substance and spoil: the most flagitious sins

Theirmiu-were no more tnan tne type o^ disobedience;

tary ex- and the brethren were united and concealed by

A.D.'goo.an oath of secresy. After a bloody conflict, they

prevailed in the province of Bahrein, along the

Persian gulf: far and wide, the tribes of the desert were

subject to the sceptre, or rather to the sword, of Abu

Said and his son Abu Taher; and these rebellious imams

could muster in the field a hundred and seven thousand

fanatics. The mercenaries of the caliph were dismayed

at the approach of an enemy who neither asked nor ac­

cepted quarter; and the difference between them, in for­

titude and patience, is expressive of the change which

three centuries of prosperity had effected in the charac­

ter of the Arabians. Such troops were discomfited in

every action; the cities of Racca and Baalbec, of Cufa,

and Bassora, were taken and pillaged; Bagdad was filled

with consternation; and the caliph trembled behind the

veils of his palace. In a daring inroad beyond the Tigris,

Abu Taher advanced to the gates of the capital with no

more than five hundred horse. By the special order of

Moctader, the bridges had been broken down, and the

person or head of the rebel was expected every hour by

