160 ROMAN EMPIRE.

among the Turks of Asia Minor, the hereditary ene­

mies of his country. The sultan of Colonia afforded a

hospitable retreat to Andronicus, his mistress, and his

band of outlaws; the debt of gratitude was paid by

frequent inroads in the Roman province of Trebizond;

and he seldom returned without an ample harvest of

spoil and of Christian captives. In the story of his

adventures, he was fond of comparing himself to Da­

vid, who escaped, by a long exile, the snares of the

wicked. But the royal prophet (he presumed to add)

was content to lurk on the borders of Judaea, to slay an

Amalekite, and to threaten, in his miserable state, the

life of the avaricious Nabal. The excursions of the

Comnenian prince had a wider range; and he had

spread over the eastern world the glory of his name

and religion. By a sentence of the Greek church the

licentious rover had been separated from the faithful;

but even this excommunication may prove, that he

never abjured the profession of Christianity.

His vigilance had eluded or repelled the open and

secret persecution of the emperor; but he was at length

ensnared by the captivity of his female companion.

The governor of Trebizond succeeded in his attempt to

surprise the person of Theodora: the queen of Jerusa­

lem and her two children were sent to Constantinople,

and their loss imbittered the tedious solitude of banish­

ment. The fugitive implored and obtained a final par-

doii, with leave to throw himself at the feet of his sove­

reign, who was satisfied with the submission of this

haughty spirit. Prostrate on the ground, he deplored

With tears and groans the guilt of his past rebellion;

nor would he presume to arise unless some faithful sub­

ject would drag him to the foot of the throne, by an

iron chain with which he had secretly encircled his

heck. This extraordinary penance excited the wonder

and pity of the assembly; his sins were forgiven by

the church and state; but the just suspicion of Manuel

