CHAP. LII. 48U

welcome perhaps to the unfortunate than to the victorious

chief. The merciless inquisition of the conqueror eradi­

cated the most distant branches of the hostile race: their

bones were scattered, their memory was accursed, and

the martyrdom of Hossein was abundantly revenged on

the posterity of his tyrants. Fourscore of the Ommi-

ades, who had yielded to the faith or clemency of their

foes, were invited to a banquet at Damascus. The laws

of hospitality were violated by a promiscuous massacre:

the board was spread over their fallen bodies; and the

festivity of the guests was enlivened by the music of their

dying groans. By the event of the civil war the dy­

nasty of the Abbassides was firmly established; but the

Christians only could triumph in the mutual hatred and

common loss of the disciples of Mahomet.p

Revolt of Yet the thousands who were swept away by

Spaio. the sword of war might have been speedily re­

trieved in the succeeding generation, if the consequences

of the revolution had not tended to dissolve the power

and unity of the empire of the Saracens. In the pro­

scription of the Ommiades, a royal youth of the name of

Abdalrahman alone escaped the rage of his enemies,

who hunted the wandering exile from the banks of the

Euphrates to the valleys of mount Atlas. His presence

in the neighbourhood of Spain revived the zeal of the

white faction. The name and cause of the Abbassides

had been first vindicated by the Persians; the west had

been pure from civil arms: and the servants of the ab­

dicated family still held, by a precarious tenure, the in­

heritance of their lands and the offices of government.

Strongly prompted by gratitude, indignation, and fear,

they invited the grandson of the caliph Hashem to as­

cend the throne of his ancestors; and, in his desperate

condition, the extremes of rashness and prudence were

T See Abulfeda, (Annal. Moslem, p. 136—145.) Eutychius, (Annal.'torn. 2.

p. 398. vers. Pocock.) Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 109—121.) Abulpharagius,

(Hist. Dynast, p. 134—14O.) Roderic of Toledo, (Hist. Arabum, c. 18. p. 33.)

Tbeophanes, (Chronograph, p. 356, 357. who speaks of the Abbassides under the

names of Xwfwawrai and M«:j./,f v:' >• and the Bibliotheque of d'Herbelot, in
the

articles of Ommiades, Abbauides, Marian, Ibrahim, Saffah, Abou Moi(fm,

