CHAP. XLVIII. 151

the brothers, was endowed by nature with the choicest

gifts both of mind and body: they were cultivated by a

liberal education, and exercised in the school of obedi足

ence and adversity. The youth was dismissed from the

perils of the Turkish war, by the paternal care of the

emperor Romanus; but the mother of the Comneni,

with her aspiring race, was accused of treason, and ba足

nished, by the sons of Ducas, to an island in the Pro-

pontis. The two brothers soon emerged into favour and

action, fought by each other's side against the rebels and

barbarians, and adhered to the emperor Michael, till he

was deserted by the world and by himself. In his first

interview with Botaniates, Prince (said Alexius, with

a noble frankness), my duty rendered me your enemy;

the decrees of God and of the people have made me

your subject. Judge of my future loyalty by my past

opposition. The successor of Michael entertained him

with esteem and confidence: his valour was employed

against three rebels, who disturbed the peace of the em足

peror, or at least of the emperors. Ursel, Bryennius,

and Basilacius, were formidable by their numerous forces

and military fame: they were successively vanquished

in the field, arid led in chains to the foot of the throne;

and whatever treatment they might receive from a timid

and cruel court, they applauded the clemency, as well as

the courage, of their conqueror. But the loyalty of the

Comneni was soon tainted by fear and suspicion; nor is

it easy to settle between a subject and a despot, the debt

of gratitude, which the former is tempted to claim by a

revolt, and the latter to discharge by an executioner.

The refusal of Alexius to march against a fourth rebel,

the husband of his sister, destroyed the merit or memory

of his past services: the favourites of Botaniates pro足

voked the ambition which they apprehended and accused;

and the retreat of the two brothers might be justified by

the defence of their life or liberty. The women of the

family were deposited in a sanctuary, respected by ty-

