CHAP. XLVII. 25

nister; who related his ineffectual efforts to prevent or

annul the hasty violence of the Egyptian. With equal

haste and violence, the oriental synod of fifty bishop s

degraded Cyril and Memnon from their episcopal ho­

nours, condemned, in the twelve anathemas, the purest

venom of the Apollinarian heresy, and described th e

Alexandrian primate as a monster, born and educated

for the destruction of the church.* His throne was dis­

tant and inaccessible; but they instantly resolved to

bestow on the flock of Ephesus the blessing of a faith­

ful shepherd. By the vigilance of Memnon, the churches

were shut against them, and a strong garrison was

thrown into the cathedral. The troops, under the com­

mand of Candidian, advanced to the assault; the out-

guards were routed and put to the sword, but the place

was impregnable: the besiegers retired; their retreat

was pursued by a vigorous sally; they lost their horses,

and many of the soldiers were dangerously wounded

with clubs and stones. Ephesus, the city of the Virgin,

was defiled with rage and clamour, with sedition and

blood; the rival synods darted anathemas and excom­

munications from their spiritual engines; and the court

of Theodosius was perplexed by the adverse and con­

tradictory narratives of the Syrian and Egyptian fac­

tions. During a busy period of three months, the em­

peror tried every method, except the most effectual

means of indifference and contempt, to reconcile this

theological quarrel. He attempted to remove or inti­

midate the leaders by a common sentence of acquittal or

condemnation; he invested his representatives at Ephe­

sus with ample power and military force; he summoned

from either party eight chosen deputies to a free and

candid conference in the neighbourhood of the capital,

far from the contagion of popular frenzy. But the ori-

> '» 5= He' c\i6(a tm uxXwism it^flti; iwi Tpa$ei;. After the coalition of
John and

Cyril, these invectives were mutually forgotten. The style of declamation must

never be confounded with the genuine sense which respectable enemies
entertain,

of each other's merit. (Concil. torn. 3. p. 1241.)

