332 ROMAN EMPIRE.

tues, which are necessary to maintain the reputation of

a prophet among his sectaries and friends. Of his last

years, ambition was the ruling passion; and a politician

will suspect, that he secretly smiled (the victorious im­

postor!) at the enthusiasm of his youth, and the credu­

lity of his proselytes.1 A philosopher would observe

that their cruelty and his success would tend more

strongly to fortify the assurance of his divine mission,

that his interest and religion were inseparably connect­

ed, and 'that his conscience would be soothed by the

persuasion, that he alone was absolved by the Deity from

the obligation of positive and moral laws. If he retained

any vestige of his native innocence, the sins of Mahomet

may be allowed as the evidence of his sincerity. In the

support of trurti, the arts of fraud and fiction may be

deemed less criminal; and he would have started at the

foulness of the means, had he not been satisfied of the

importance and justice of the end. Even in a conqueror

or a priest, I can surprise a word or action of unaffected

humanity; and the decree of Mahomet, that, in the sale

of captives, the mother should never be separated from

their children, may suspend or moderate the censure of

the historian.'

private The good sense of Mahomet" despised the

life of pomp of royalty; the apostle of God submitted

Mahomet, f .if • , m r i' r .i i- i • ji j

to the menial offices of the family; he kindled

the fire, swept the floor, milked the ewes, and mended

with his own hands his shoes and his woollen garment.

• In some passage of his voluminous writings, \roltaire compares the prophet,

in his old age, to a fakir,—" qui detache le chaine de son cou pour en
donnersur

les oreilles a ses confreres."

1 Gagnier relates, with the same impartial pen, this humane law of the
prophet,

and the murders of Caab and Sophian, which he prompted and approved. (Vie de

Mahomet, torn. 2. p. 69. 97. 20R.)

• For the domestic life of Mahomet, consult Gagnier, and the corresponding

chapters of Abulfeda; for his diet, (torn. 3. p. 285—288.) his children, (p.
189.

239.) his wives, (p.290—303.) his marriage with Zeineb, (torn. 2. p. 152—16O.)

his amour with Mary, (p 303—309.) the false accusation of Ayesha. (p. 186—

199.) The most original evidence of the three last transactions, is contained
in

the twenty-fourth, thirty-third, and sixty-sixth chapters of the Koran, with
Sale's

commentary. Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 80—90.) and Maracci (Prodrorn.

Alcoran, part 4. p. 49—51.) have maliciously exaggerated the frailties of
Mahomrt.

