296 ROMAN EMPIRE.

was practised of old by the Arabs, is solemnly enjoined

by the Koran; and a permission is formally granted to

supply with sand the scarcity of water. The words and

attitudes of supplication, as it is performed either sitting,

or standing, or prostrate on the ground, are prescribed

by custom or authority, but the prayer is poured forth in

short and fervent ejaculations; the measure of zeal is

not exhausted by a tedious liturgy; and each Mussul­

man, for his own person, is invested with the character

of a priest. Amongst the theists, who reject the use of

images, it has been found necessary to restrain the wan­

derings of the fancy, by directing the eye and the

thought towards a kebla, or visible point of the horizon.

The prophet was at first inclined to gratify the Jews by

the choice of Jerusalem; but he soon returned to a more

natural partiality; and five times every day the eyes of

the nations at Astracan, at Fez, at Delhi, are devoutly

turned to the holy temple of Mecca. Yet every spot for

the service of God is equally pure; the Mahometans in­

differently pray in their chamber or in the street. As a

distinction from the Jews and Christians, the Friday in

each week is set apart for the useful institution of public

worship: the people are assembled in the mosch; and

the iman, some respectable elder, ascends the pulpit, to

begin the prayer and pronounce the sermon. But the

Mahometan religion is destitute of priesthood or sacrifice;

and the independent spirit of fanaticism looks down with

contempt on the ministers and the slaves of superstition.

II. The voluntary1* penance of the ascetics, the torment

and glory of their lives, was odious to a prophet who

censured in his companions a rash vow of abstaining

from flesh, and women, and sleep; and firmly declared

that he would suffer no monks in his religion.1 Yet he

* Mahomet (Sale's Koran, c. 9. p. 153.) reproaches the Christiana with taking  
their priests and monks for their lords, besides God. Yet Maracci (Prodromus,

part 3. p. 69, 70.) excuses the worship, especially of the pope, and quotes,
from the

Koran itself, the case of Eblis, or Satan, who was cast from heaven for
refusing to

adore Adarn.

1 Koran, c. 5. p. 94. and Sale's note, which refers to the authority of
Jallaloddin

