CHAP. LII. 519

sidence and the camp of his barbarian favourites at Sa­

mara on the Tigris, about twelve leagues above the city

of Peace/ His son Motawakkel was a jealous and cruel

tyrant: odious to his subjects, he cast himself on the fi­

delity of the strangers, and these strangers, ambitious and

apprehensive, were tempted by the rich promise of a re­

volution. At the instigation, or at least in the cause of

his son, they burst into his apartment at the hour of sup­

per, and the caliph was cut into seven pieces by the same

swords which he had recently distributed among the

guards of his life and throne. To this throne, yet stream­

ing with a father's blood, Montasser was triumphantly

led; but in a reign of six months, he found only the

pangs of a guilty conscience. If he wept at the sight of

an old tapestry which represented the crime and punish­

ment of the sons of Chosroes; if his days were abridged

by grief and remorse, we may allow some pity to a par­

ricide, who exclaimed in the bitterness of death, that he

had lost both this world and the world to come. After

this act of treason, the ensigns of royalty, the garment

and walking-staff of Mahomet, were given and torn

away by the foreign mercenaries, who in four years cre­

ated, deposed, and murdered three commanders of the

faithful. As often as the Turks were inflamed by fear,

or ravage, or avarice, these caliphs were dragged by the

feet, exposed naked to the scorching sun, beaten with iron

clubs, and compelled to purchase, by the abdication of

their dignity, a short reprieve of inevitable fate.8 At

length, however, the fury of the tempest was spent or di­

verted: the Abbassides returned to the less turbulent re­

sidence of Bagdad; the insolence of the Turks was

1 He changed the old names of Sumere, or Samara, into the fanciful title of

Sermen-Tdi, that which gives pleasure at first sight. (D'Herbelot,
Bibliotheque

Orientale, p. 808. D'Anville, 1 Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 97, 98.)

8 Take a specimen, the death of the caliph Motaz: Correptum pedibus petra-

hunt, etsudibus probe permulcant, et spoliatum lacoris vestibus in sole
collocaot,

prae cujus, acerrimo restd pedcs altemis attolebat et demittebat. Adstantium
aliquis

misero colaphos continuo ingerebat, quos ille objcctis manibus avertoro
studebat

Quo facto traditus tortori fuit totoque triduo cibo potuque prohibitus. .. .

Sufibcatus, &c. (Abulfeda, p. iiOC.) Of the caliph Mohtadi, he says, cervices
iflsi

perpetuis ictibus coatundebant, testiculosque pedibus concu'cabant. (p. 208.)

