362 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Arabic and Persian literature,™ our interpreters have se­

lected the imperfect sketches of a more recent age." The

art and genius of history have ever been unknown to

the Asiatics;" they are ignorant of the laws of criticism;

and our monkish chronicles of the same period may be

compared to their most popular works, which are never

verified by the spirit of philosophy and freedom. The

oriental library of a Frenchman11 would instruct the

most learned mufti of the east; and perhaps the Arabs

might not find in a single historian, so clear and com­

prehensive a narrative of their own exploits, as that which

will be deduced in the ensuing sheets.

I. In the first year of the first caliph, his lieu-

Invasion of

Penis, tenant Caled, the sword of God, and the scourge

'of the infidels, advanced to the banks of the

Euphrates, and reduced the cities of Anbar and Him.

Westward of the ruins of Babylon a tribe of sedentary

• Besides the lists of authors framed by Prideaux, (Life of Mahomet, p. 179—

189.) Ockley (at the end of his second volume), and Petit de la Croix, (Hist,
de

Gengiscan, p. 525—550.) we find in the Bibliotheque Orientale Tarikh, a cata­

logue of two 0r three hundred histories or chronicles of the east, of which
not more

than three or four are older than Tabari. A lively sketch of oriental
literature is

giren by Reiske; (in his Prodidagmata ad Hagji Chalifs librum memorialem ad

calcem Abulfeda: Tabulie Syria, Ljpsis, 1766.) but his project and the French

version of Petit de la Croix (Hist, de Timur Bee, torn. 1. preface, p. 45.)
have

fallen to the ground.

n The particular historians and geographers will be occasionally introduced.

The four following titles representthe annals, which have guided me in this
general

narrative.—1. AnnaUs Eutychii, Patriarchs Alexandrine, ab Edwardo Pocockio,
Oxtm.

1656, tiro vols. in quarto; a pompous edition of an indifferent author,
translated

by Pocock, to gratify the prcshyterian prejudice of his friend Selden. 2.
Hifloria

Saracenica Oecn-fii Elmacini, opera ft audio Thonuc Erpenii, in quarto, Jjugd.
Bata-

vorum, 1625. He is said to have hastily translated a corrupt MS. and bis
version

is often deficient in style and sense. 3. Hittaria compendiata Dynaittarum a
Gre-

gario Abulpharagio, interprtte Edwardo Poaocldo, in quarto, Oxen. 1663 ; more
useful

for the literary than the civil history of the east. 4. Abulfedf Annates
Idotlemid ad

Ann. ltf.;i:.'i .toil, a Jo. Joe. Eeiskc, in quarto, Lipsitf, 1754; the best
of our Chroni­

cles, both for the original and version; yet how far below the name of
Abnlfeda!

We know that he wrote at Hamah, in the fourteenth century. The three former

were Christians of the tenth, twelfth, and thirteenth centuries; the two
first, na­

tives of Egypt ; a Melchite patriarch, and a Jacobite scribe.

"M. de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. pref. zix. xx.) has characterized,

with truth and knowledge, the two sorts of Arabian historians, the dry
annalist,

and the tumid and flowery orator.

p Bibliotheque Orientale, par M. d'Herbelot, in folio, Paris, 1697. For the

character of the respectable author, consult his friend Thevenot. (Voyages da

Levant, part 1. chap, 50.) His work is an agreeable miscellany, which must

gratify every taste ; but I never can digest the alphabetical order, and I
find him

more satisfactory in the Persian than the Arabic history. The recent
supplement

from the papers of MM. Visdelou and Gallond (in folio, La Hayc, 1779) is of a

different case, a medley of tales, proverbs, and Chinese antiquities.

