394 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the Saracens proceeded to Heliopolis and Emesa; but

I shall decline the repetition of the sallies and combats

which have been already shewn on a large scale. In the

prosecution of the war, their policy was not less effectual

than their sword. By short and separate truces they dis­

solved the union of the enemy; accustomed the Syrians

to compare their friendship with their enmity; famili­

arized the idea of their language, religion, and manners;

and exhausted, by clandestine purchase, the magazines

and arsenals of the cities which they returned to besiege.

They aggravated the ransom of the more wealthy or the

more obstinate; and Chalcis alone was taxed at five

thousand ounces of gold, five thousand ounces of silver,

two thousand robes of silk, and as many figs and olives

as would load five thousand asses. But the terms of

truce or capitulation were faithfully observed; and the

lieutenant of the caliph, who had promised not to entei

the walls of the captive Baalbec, remained tranquil and

immoveable in his tent till the jarring factions solicited

the interposition of a foreign master. The conquest of

the plain and valley of Syria was achieved in less than

two years. Yet the commander of the faithful reproved

the slowness of their progress, and the Saracens, bewail­

ing their fault with tears of rage and repentance, called

aloud on their chiefs to lead them forth to fight the bat­

tles of the Lord. In a recent action, under the walls of

Emesa, an Arabian youth, the cousin of Caled, was heard

aloud to exclaim—Mcthinks I see the black-eyed girls

looking upon me; one of whom, should she appear in this

world, all mankind would die for love of her. And I see

in the hand of one of them, a handkerchief of green silk,

and a cup of precious stones, and she beckons me, and calls

out, Come hither quickly, for I love thee. With these

words, charging the Christians, he made havoc where-

ever he went, till observed at length by the governor of

Hems, he was struck through with a javelin.

