CHAP. LIT. 531

troops, on whom, at this moment, I shall not hesitate to

bestow the name of Romans. In the double city of

Mopsuestia, which is divided by the river Sarus, two

hundred thousand Moslems were predestined to death

or slavery/ a surprising degree of population, which

must at least include the inhabitants of the dependant

districts. They were stirrotmded and taken by assault;

but Tarsus was reduced by the slow progress of famine;

and no sooner had the Saracens yielded on honourable

terms, than they were mortified by the distant and un­

profitable view of the naval succours of Egypt. They

were dismissed with a safe conduct to the confines

of Syria: a part of the old Christians had quietly lived

under their] dominion, and the vacant habitations were

replenished by a new colony. But the mosch was

converted into a stable; the pulpit was delivered to

the flames; many rich crosses of gold and gems, the

spoils of Asiatic churches, were made a grateful of­

fering to the piety or avarice of the emperor; and he

transported the gates of Mopsuestia and Tarsus, which

were fixed in the wall of Constantinople, an eternal mo-

invasion of nunient of his victory. After they had forced

Syria. an(j secured the narrow passes of mount Amanus,

the two Roman princes repeatedly carried their arms

into the heart of Syria. Yet, instead of assaulting the

walls of Antioch, the humanity or superstition of Nice-

phorus appeared to respect the ancient metropolis of the

east: he contented himself with drawing round the city

a line of circumvallation; left a stationary army; and

instructed his lieutenant to expect, without impatience,

the return of spring. But in the depth of winter, in a

dark and rainy night, an adventurous subaltern, with

three hundred soldiers, approached the rampart, applied

"Ducenta fere mi Ilia hominum numerabat urbs (Abulfeda. Annal. Moslem, p.

231.) ot'Mopsupstia, or Mafifa, Mampsysta, Mansista, Mamista, as it is
corruptly,

or perhaps more correctly, styled in the middle ages. (Wesseling.Itinerar. p.
580.)

Yet I cannot credit this extreme populousness a few yean after the testimony
of the

emperor Leo, m> yap wo\wrx,iflia frfunu T»C KiXifi gafSijw; isnv. ^(Tactica,
c. IS.

in Meuraii Oper. torn. 6. p. 817.)

