CHAP. XLV1I. 23

he was attended by fifty Egyptian bishops, who expect­

ed from their patriarch's nod the inspiration of the Holy

Ghost. He had contracted an intimate alliance with

Memnon bishop of Ephesus. The despotic primate of

Asia disposed of the ready succours of thirty or forty

episcopal votes: a crowd of peasants, the slaves of the

church, was poured into the city, to support with blows

and clamours a metaphysical argument; and the people

zealously asserted the honour of the Virgin, whose body

reposed within the walls of Ephesus.' The fleet, which

had transported Cyril from Alexandria, was laden with

the riches of Egypt: and he disembarked a numerous

body of mariners, slaves, and fanatics, enlisted with blind

obedience under the banner of St. Mark and the mother

of God. The fathers, and even the guards, of the coun­

cil, were awed by this martial array; the adversaries of

Cyril and Mary were insulted in the streets, or threat­

ened in their houses; his eloquence and liberality made

a daily increase in the number of his adherents; and

the Egyptian soon computed, that he might command

the attendance and the voices of two hundred bishops."

But the author of the twelve anathemas foresaw and

dreaded the opposition of John of Antioch, who with a

small, though respectable, train of metropolitans and

divines, was advancing by slow journeys from the dis­

tant capital of the east. Impatient of a delay, which

he stigmatized as voluntary and culpable," Cyril an-

* The Christians of the four first centuries were ignorant of the death and burial  
of Mary. The tradition of Ephesus is affirmed by the synod, (i»9a o StcXoyt;
loiam;,

1a1 .-, :-i;-W;- «»ftow; ,i ayia Mafia. Concil. torn. 3. p. 1102.) yet it has
been super­

seded by the claim of Jerusalem; and her empty sepulchre, as it was shewn to
the

pilgrims, produced the fable of her resurrection and assumption, in which the

Greek and I .-.u m churches have piously acquiesced. See Baronius (Annal.
Eccles.

A. D. 48. no. 6, &c.) and Tillemont. (Mern. Eccles. torn. 1. p.467—477.)

* The Acts of Chalcedon (Concil. torn. 4. p. 1405.1408.) exhibit a lively picture  
of the blind, obstinate servitude of the bishops of Egypt to their patriarch.

* Civil or ecclesiastical business detained the bishops at Antioch, till the eigh­  
teenth of May. Ephesus was at the distance of thirty days' journey; and ten
days

more may be fairly allowed for accidents and repose. The march of Xenophon

over the same ground enumerates about two hundred and sixty parasangs or

leagues; and this measure might be illustrated from ancient and modern
itineraries,

if I knew how to compare the speed of an army, a synod, and a caravan. John

of Antioch is reluctantly acquitted by Tillemont himself. (Mern. Eccles. torn.
14.

p. 286—289.)

