CHAP. XLVIII. 87

CHAP. XLVIII.

I

Plan of the remainder of the work.—Succession and characters of

the Greek emperors of Constantinople, from the time of Hera-

clius to the Latin conquest.

Defects of I HAVE now deduced from Trajan to Constan-

»nSfe tme, ^rom Constantine to Heraclius, the regular

kiatory. series of the Roman emperors; and faithfully

exposed the prosperous and adverse fortunes of their

reigns. Five centuries of the decline and fall of the em­

pire have already elapsed; but a period of more than

eight hundred years still separates me from the term of

my labours, the taking of Constantinople by the Turks.

Should I persevere in the same course, should I ob­

serve the same measure, a prolix and slender thread

would be spun through many a volume, nor would the

patient reader find an adequate reward of instruction

or amusement. At every step as we sink deeper in the

decline and fall of the eastern empire, the annals of

each succeeding reign would impose a more ungrateful

and melancholy task. These annals must continue to

repeat a tedious and uniform tale of weakness and mi­

sery; the natural connexion of causes and events would

be brpken by frequent and hasty transitions, and a mi­

nute accumulation of circumstances must destroy the

light and effect of those general pictures which com­

pose the use and ornament of a remote history. From

the time of Heraclius, the Byzantine theatre is con­

tracted and darkened: the line of empire, which had

been defined by the laws of Justinian and the arms of

anisme d'/Ethiopie et d'Armenie, La Haye, 1759, in duodecimo), have drawn

thrit principal materials from the Jesuits, especially from the General
History of

Tellez, published in Portuguese at Conimbra, 1660. We might be surprised at

their frankness; bat their most flagitious vice, the spirit of persecution,
was, in

their eyes, the most meritorious virtue. Ludolphus possessed some, though a

slight, advantage from the ^Ethiopia language, and the personal conversation
of

Gregory, a free-spirited Abyssinian priest, whom he invited from Rome to the

court of Saxe-Gotha. See the Theologia jEthiopica of Gregory, in Fabricius,
Lux

Svsngelii, p. 716—734.

