ROMAN KMPIRK.

courage and vigilance of the Romans; the Greeks were

overthrown and massacred, their leaders suffered an

ignominious death, and the popes, however inclined to

mercy, refused to intercede for these guilty victims.

At Ravenna,q the several quarters of the city had long

exercised a bloody and hereditary feud; in religious

controversy they found a new aliment of faction: but

the votaries of images were superior in numbers or

spirit, and the exarch, who attempted to stem the tor­

rent, lost his life in a popular sedition. To punish this

flagitious deed, and restore his dominion in Italy, the

emperor sent a fleet and army into the Adriatic gulf.

After suffering from the winds and waves much loss

and delay, the Greeks made their descent in the neigh­

bourhood of Ravenna: they threatened to depopulate

the guilty capital, and to imitate, perhaps to surpass,

the example of Justinian II. who had chastised a for­

mer rebellion by the choice and execution of fifty of the

principal inhabitants. The women and clergy, in sack­

cloth and ashes, lay prostrate in prayer; the men were

in arms for the defence of their country; the common

danger had united the factions, and the event of a

battle was preferred to the slow miseries of a siege. In

a hard-fought day, as the two armies alternately yielded

and advanced, a phantom was seen, a voice was heard,

and Ravenna was victorious by the assurance of victory.

The strangers retreated to their ships, but the populous

sea-coast poured forth a multitude of boats; the waters

of the Po were so deeply infected with blood, that du­

ring six years, the public prejudice abstained from the

fish of the river; and the institution of an annual feast

perpetuated the worship of images, and the abhorrence

of the Greek tyrant. Amidst the triumph of the Ca­

tholic arms, the Roman pontiff convened a synod of

i See the 1 iber Pontificalia of Agnellus, (in the Script-ores Return
Italicarum of

Muratori, torn. 2. para 1.) whose deeper shade of barbarism marks the
difference

between Rome and Ravenna. Yet we are indebted to him for some curious and

domestic fact —the quarrels and factions of Ravenna, (p. 154.) the revenge of

Justinian II. (p. 160, 161.) the defeat of the Greeks, (p. 170,171.) &c.

