494 ROMAN EMPIRE.

tified. Our imagination is dazzled by the splendid pic­

ture; and whatever may be the cool dictates of reason,

there are few among us who would obstinately refuse a

trial of the comforts and the cares of royalty. It may

therefore be of some use to borrow the experience of the

same Abdalrahman, whose magnificence has perhaps ex­

cited our admiration and envy, and to transcribe an au­

thentic memorial which was found in the closet of the

deceased caliph. I have now reigned above fifty years in

victory or peace; beloved by my subjects, dreaded by my

enemies, and respected by my allies. Riches and honours,

power and pleasure, have waited on my call, nor does any

earthly blessing appear to have been wanting to my feli­

city. In this situation I have diligently numbered the

days of pure and genuine happiness which have fallen to

my lot: they amount to fourteen :—O man! place not thy

confidence in this present world /d The luxury of the ca­

liphs, so useless to their private happiness, relaxed the

nerves, and terminated the progress, of the Arabian em­

pire. Temporal and spiritual conquest had been the

sole occupation of the first successors of Mahomet; and

after supplying themselves with the necessaries of life,

the whole revenue was scrupulously devoted to that sa­

lutary work. The Abbassides were impoverished by the

multitude of their wants, and their contempt of economy.

Instead of pursuing the great object of ambition, their

leisure, their affections, the powers of their mind, were

diverted by pomp and pleasure; the rewards of valour

were embezzled by women and eunuchs, and the royal

camp was encumbered by the luxury of the palace. A

similar temper was diffused among the subjects of the

caliph. Their stern enthusiasm was softened by time

•' Cardonne, torn. 1. p. 329, 330. This confession, the complaints of Solomon
of

the vanity of this world (read Prior's verbose but eloquent poem), and the
happy

ten days of the emperor Seghed, (Rambler, no. 204, 205.) will be triumphantly

quoted by the detractors of human life. Their expectations are commonly immo­

derate ; their estimates are seldom impartial. If I may speak of myself (the
only

person of whom I can speak with certainty), my happy hours have far exceeded,

and far exceed, the scanty numbers of the caliph of Spam; and I shall not
scruple

to add, that many of them are due to the pleasing labour of the present
composition.

