380 ROMAN EMPIRE.

introduced to the tent of that venerable commander

He received and dismissed them with courtesy. "They

returned with a written agreement, on the faith of a

companion of Mahomet, that all hostilities should cease;

that the voluntary emigrants might depart in safety, with

as much as they could carry away of their effects; and

that the tributary subjects of the caliph should enjoy

their lands and houses, with the use and possession of

seven churches. On these terms, the most respectable

hostages, and the gate nearest to his camp, were deli­

vered into his hands: his soldiers imitated the modera­

tion of their chief; and he enjoyed the submissive gra­

titude of a people whom. he had rescued from destruction.

But the success of the treaty had relaxed their vigilance,

and in the same moment the opposite quarter of the

city was betrayed and taken by assault. A party of a

hundred Arabs had opened the eastern gate to a more

inexorable foe. No quarter (cried the rapacious and

sanguinary Caled), no quarter to the enemies of the Lord.

His trumpets sounded, and a torrent of Christian blood

was poured down the streets of Damascus. When he

reached the church of St. Mary, he was astonished and

provoked by the peaceful aspect of his companions; their

swords were in the scabbard, and they were surrounded

by a multitude of priests and monks.—Abu Obeidah

saluted the general; God (said he) has delivered the city

into my hands by way of surrender, and has saved the be­

lievers the trouble of fighting.—And am I not (replied

the indignant Caled), am I not the lieutenant of the com­

mander of the faithful? Have I not taken the city by

storm? The unbelievers shall perish by the stvord. Fall

on. The hungry and cruel Arabs would have obeyed

the welcome command; and Damascus was lost, if the

benevolence of Abu Obeidah had not been supported by

a decent and dignified firmness. Throwing himself be­

tween the trembling citizens and the most eager of the

barbarians, he adjured them by the holy name of God,

