CHAP. L. 333

Disdaining the penance and merit of a hermit, he ob­

served without effort or vanity, the abstemious diet of

an Arab and a soldier. On solemn occasions he feasted

his companions with rustic and hospitable plenty; but

in his domestic life, many weeks would elapse without

a fire being kindled on the hearth of the prophet. The

interdiction of wine was confirmed by his example; his

hunger was appeased with a sparing allowance of barley-

bread; he delighted in the taste of milk and honey; but

his ordinary food consisted of dates and water. Per­

fumes and women were the two sensual enjoyments

which his nature required and his religion did not forbid:

and Mahomet affirmed, that the fervour of his devotion

was increased by these innocent pleasures. The heat

of the climate inflames the blood of the Arabs; and their

libidinous complexion has been noticed by the writers

of antiquity.1 Their incontinence was regulated by the

civil and religious laws of the Koran: their incestuous

alliances were blamed, the boundless licence of poly­

gamy was reduced to four legitimate wives or concu­

bines; their right both of bed and of dowry were equi­

tably determined; the freedom of divorce was discou­

raged, adultery was condemned as a capital offence, and

fornication, in either sex, was punished with a hundred

stripes.7 Such were the calm and rational precepts of

the legislator: but in his private conduct, Mahomet in­

dulged the appetites of a man, and abused the claims of

a prophet. A special revelation dispensed him from

the laws which he had imposed on his nation; the female

sex, without reserve, was abandoned to his desires; and

this singular prerogative excited the envy, rather than

the scandal, the veneration rather than the envy, of the

devout Mussulmans. If we remember the seven

.' hundred wives and three hundred concubines of

1 Incredible est quo ardore apud eos in venerem uterque solvitur sexus. (Am-

mian. Marcellin. lib. 14. c. 4.)

T Sale (Preliminary Discourse, p. 133—137.) has recapitulated the laws of mar­

riage, divorce, &c. and the curious reader of Selden's Uxor Hebraica will
recog­

nize many Jewish ordinances.

