CHAP. LII. 523

sidered as the second visible cause of the decline and fall

of the caliphs.'

Revolt of third and most obvious cause was the

the pro- weight and magnitude of the empire itself. The

A.D.^OO caliph Almamon might proudly assert, that it was

easier for him to rule the east and the west, than

to manage a chess board of two feet square;* yet I sus­

pect, that in both those games he was guilty of many

fatal mistakes; and I perceive, that in the distant pro­

vinces the authority of the first and most powerful of the

Abbassides was already impaired. The analogy of des­

potism invests the representative with the full majesty of

the prince; the division and balance of powers might

relax the habits of obedience, might encourage the pas­

sive subject to inquire into the origin and administration

of civil government. He who is born in the purple is

seldom worthy to reign; but the elevation of a private

man, of a peasant perhaps, or a slave, affords a strong

presumption of his courage and capacity. The viceroy

of a remote kingdom aspires to secure the property and

inheritance of his precarious trust; the nations must re­

joice in the presence of their sovereign; and the command

of armies and treasures are at once the object and the in­

strument of his ambition. A change was scarcely visible

as long as the lieutenants of the caliph were content with

their vicarious title; while they solicited for themselves

or their sons a renewal of the imperial grant, and still

maintained on the coin, and in the public prayers, the

name and prerogative of the commander of the faithful.

But in the long and hereditary exercise of power, they

assumed the pride and attributes of royalty; the alter­

native of peace or war, of reward or punishment, de­

pended solely on their will; and the revenues of the go­

1 For the sect of the Caxmathians, consult Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 219.
224.

229. 231. 2S8. 241. 243.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast p. 179—182.) Abulfeda,
(Annal.

Moslem, p. 218, 219, &c. 245. 265. 274.) and d'Herbelot. (Bibliotheque
Orientale,

p. 256 — 258. 635.) I find some inconsistencies of theology and chronology,
which

it would not be easy nor of much importance to reconcile.

k Hyde, Syntagma Dissertat. torn. 2. p. 57. in Hist. Shahiludii.

