CHAP. XLVIII. 147

tide by conquest; but this sword would have been

drawn against the foreign and domestic enemies of the

state. The decline of his health and vigour suspended

the operation of active virtue; and the prospect of ap­

proaching death determined him to interpose some mo­

ments betweentife and eternity. But instead of leaving

the empire as the marriage-portion of his daughter, his

reason and inclination concurred in the preference of his

brother John, a soldier, a patriot, and the father of five

sons, the future pillars of an hereditary succession. His

first modest reluctance might be the natural dictates of

discretion and tenderness, but his obstinate and success­

ful perseverance, however it may dazzle with the show

of virtue, must be censured as a criminal desertion of his

duty, and a rare offence against his family and country.

The purple which he had refused was accepted by Con-

stantine Ducas, a friend of the Comnenian house, and

whose noble birth was adorned with the experience and

reputation of civil policy. In the monastic habit, Isaac

recovered his health, and survived two years his volun­

tary abdication. At the command of his abbot, he ob­

served the rule of St. Basil, and executed the most ser­

vile offices of the convent: but his latent vanity was

gratified by the frequent and respectful visits of the

reigning monarch, who revered in his person the cha­

racter of a benefactor and a saint.

^ If Constantino XI. were indeed the subject

tine XL most worthy of empire, we must pity the debase-

A.Djiosg, ment of the age and nation in which he was

Dec' 2'7. chosen. In the labour of puerile declamations

he sought, without obtaining, the crown of eloquence,

more precious, in his opinion, than that of Rome: and,

in the subordinate functions of a judge, he forgot the

duties of a sovereign and a warrior. Far from imitating

the patriotic indifference of the authors of his greatness,

Ducas was anxious only to secure, at the expense of

the republic, the power and prosperity of his children.

L2

