306 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of the branch of Oramiyah, succeeded to tne principality

of the republic of Mecca. A zealous votary of the idols,

a mortal foe of the line of Hashem, he convened an as­

sembly of the Koreishites and their allies, to decide the

fate of the apostle. His imprisonment might provoke the

despair of his enthusiasm; and the exile of an eloquent

and popular fanatic would diffuse the mischief through

the provinces of Arabia. His death was resolved; and

they agreed that a sword from each tribe should be

buried in his heart, to divide the guilt of his blood, and

and driven baffle the vengeance of the Hashemites. An an-

Mecca. S^ or a SPY revealed their conspiracy; and flight

A.D. ees. was the only resource of Mahomet.b At the dead

of night, accompanied by his friend Abubeker, he silently

escaped from his house: the assassins watched at the

door; but they were deceived by the figure of Ali, who

reposed on the bed, and was covered with the green vest­

ment of the apostle. The Koreish respected the piety

of the heroic youth; but some verses of Ali, which are

still extant, exhibit an interesting picture of his anxiety,

his tenderness, and his religious confidence. Three days

Mahomet and his companion were concealed in the cave

of Thor, at the distance of a league from Mecca; and in

the close of each evening, they received from the son

and daughter of Abubeker, a secret supply of intelligence

and food. The diligence of the Koreish explored every

haunt in the neighbourhood of the city; they arrived at

the entrance of the cavern; but the providential deceit

of a spider's web and a pigeon's nest, is supposed to con­

vince them that the place was solitary and inviolate. We

are only two, said the trembling Abubeker. There is a

third (replied the prophet); it is God himself. No

soofter was the pursuit abated, than the two fugitives is­

sued from the rock, and mounted their camels; on the

road to Medina, they were overtaken by the emissaries

of the Koreish; they redeemed themselves with prayers

» plfcrbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 445. He quotes a particular history of th«

flight of Mahomet.

