CHAP. LI. 429

(said he) is our general?—In his tent.—Is the tent a

station for the general of the Moslems? Abdallah re­

presented with a blush the importance of his own life,

and the temptation that was held forth by the Roman

prefect. Retort (said Zobeir) on the infidels their un­

generous attempt. Proclaim through the ranks, that

the head of Gregory shall be repaid with his captive

daughter, and the equal sum of one hundred thousand

pieces of gold. To the courage and discretion of Zobeir

the lieutenant of the caliph intrusted the execution of

his own stratagem, which inclined the long-disputed

balance in favour of the Saracens. Supplying by ac­

tivity and artifice the deficiency of numbers, a part of

their forces lay concealed in their tents, while the re­

mainder prolonged an irregular skirmish with the enemy,

till the sun was high in the heavens. On both sides they

retired with fainting steps: their horses were unbridled,

their armour was laid aside, and the hostile nations pre­

pared, or seemed to prepare, for the refreshment of the

evening, and the encounter of the ensuing day. On a

sudden the charge was sounded; the Arabian camp

poured forth a swarm of fresh and intrepid warriors;

and the long line of the Greeks and Africans was sur­

prised, assaulted, overturned, by new squadrons of the

faithful, who, to the eye of fanaticism, might appear as

a band of angels descending from the sky. The prefect

himself was slain by the hand of Zobeir: his daughter,

who sought revenge and death, was surrounded and

made prisoner; and the fugitives involved in their

disaster the town of Sufetula, to which they escaped from

the sabres and lances of the Arabs. Sufetula was built

one hundred and fifty miles to the south of Carthage;

a gentle declivity is watered by a running stream, and

shaded by a grove of juniper-trees; and in the ruins of

a triumphal arch, a portico, and three temples of the Co­

rinthian order, curiosity may yet admire the magnificence

