CHAP. L. 329

mournful event; the army halted at the gates of Medina;

the chiefs were assembled round their dying master.

The city, more especially the house, of the prophet, was

a scene of clamorous sorrow or of silent despair: fana­

ticism alone could suggest a ray of hope and consolation.

How can he be dead, our witness, our intercessor, our

mediator with God? By God he is not dead; like Moses

and Jesus he is wrapt in a holy trance, and speedily will

he return to his faithful people. The evidence of sense

was disregarded; and Omar, unsheathing his scimitar,

threatened to strike off the heads of the infidels, who

should dare to affirm that the prophet was no more. The

tumult was appeased by the weight and moderation of

Abubeker. Is it Mahomet (said he to Omar and the

multitude), or the God of Mahomet, whom you worship!

The God of Mahomet livethfor ever, but the apostle was

a mortal like ourselves, and according to his own prediction,

he has experienced the common fate of mortality. He was

piously interred by the hands of his nearest kinsman, on

the same spot on which he expired:" Medina has been

sanctified by the death and burial of Mahomet: and the

innumerable pilgrims of Mecca often turn aside from the

way, to bow in voluntary devotion,0 before the simple

tomb of the prophet.p

His cha- At the conclusion of the life of Mahomet, it

racier. raav perhaps be expected, that I should balance

n The Greeks and Latins have invented and propagated the vulgar and ridiculous

story that Mahomet's iron tomb is suspended in the air at Mecca (a-ii/ua
/uiriaifi^o-

l*tm; Laonicas Chalcocondyles des Rebus Turcicis, lib. 3. p. 6C.) by the
action of

equal and potent loadstones, (Dictionnaire de Bayle, MAHoMET, Kem. EE. "FF.)

Without any philosophical inquiries, it may suffice, that, l.'l'he prophet was
not

buried at Mecca; and, 2. That his tomb at Medina, which has been visited by
mil­

lions, is placed on the ground, (Reland de Relig. Moharn. lib. 2. c. 19. p.
209—

111.) Gagnier. (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 263—268.)

0A1 Jannabi enumerates (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 373—391.) the multifa­

rious duties of a pilgrim who visits the tomb of the prophet and his
companions, and

the learned casuist decides, that this act of devotion is nearest in
obligation and

merit to a divine precept. The doctors are divided which, of Mecca and Medina,

be the most excellent, (p. 391—394.)

* The last sickness, death, and burial, of Mahomet, are described by Abulfeda  
and Gagnier. (Vit. Moharn. p. 133.—142. Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 220—271.)

The most private and interesting circumstances were originally received from

Ayesha, Ali, the sons of Abbas, &c. and as t y dwelt at Medina, and survived

the prophet many years, they might repest the pious tale to a second or third
pp-

neration of pilgrims.

