CHAP. "XLVII. 13

most fearful of separating, the divinity and the huma­

nity of Christ. Impelled by religious frenzy, they fled

with adverse haste from the error which they mutually

deemed most destructive of truth and salvation. On

either hand they were anxious to guard, they were jea­

lous to defend, the union and the distinction of the two

natures, and to invent such forms of speech, such

symbols of doctrine, as were least susceptible of doubt

or ambiguity. The poverty of ideas and language

tempted them to ransack art and jiature for every possi­

ble comparison, and each comparison misled their

fancy in the explanation of an incomparable mystery.

In the polemic microscope, an atom is enlarged to a

monster, and each party was skilful to exaggerate the

absurd or impious conclusions that might be extorted

from the principles of their adversaries. To escape

from each other, they wandered through many a dark

and devious thicket, till they were astonished by the

horrid phantoms of Cerinthus and Apollinaris, who

guarded the opposite issues of the theological labyrinth.

As soon as they beheld the twilight of sense and he­

resy, they started, measured back their steps, and were

again involved in the gloom of impenetrable ortho­

doxy. To purge themselves from the guilt or reproach

of damnable error, they disavowed their consequences,

explained their principles, excused their indiscretions,

and unanimously pronounced the sounds of concord

and faith. Yet a latent and almost invisible spark still

lurked among the embers of controversy: by the breath

of prejudice and passion it was quickly kindled to a

mighty flame, and the verbal disputes' of the oriental

sects have shaken the pillars of the church and state.

'I appeal to the confession of two oriental prelates, Gregory Abnlpharagius
the

Jacobite primate of the east, and Elias the Nestorian metropolitan of
Damascus,

(see Asseman. Bibliothec. Oriental, torn. 2. p. 291. torn. 3. p. 514, &c.)
that the

Melchites, Jacobites, Nestorians, &c. agree in the doctrine, and differ only
in the

expression. Our most learned and rational divines—Basnage, Le Clerc, Beau-

sobre, La Croze, Mosheim, Jablonski—are inclined to favour this charitable
judg­

ment; but the zeal of Petavius is loud and angry, and the moderation of Dupin
is

conveyed in a whisper.

