CHAP. XLIX. 241

the ecclesiastical order, whose liberty was connected

with that of their chief. But the second attempt,

though it was crowned with some partial and apparent

success, has been vigorously resisted by the secular

power, and finally extinguished by the improvement of

human reason.

In the revival of the empire of Rome, neither the

Authority i . •• . , *• , _.

of the em- bishop nor the people could bestow on Charle-

SSnre.111 magne or Otho, the provinces which were lost,

as they had been won, by the chance of arms.

But the Romans were free to choose a master for them­

selves: and the powers which had been delegated to

the patrician, were irrevocably granted to the French

and Saxon emperors of the west. The broken records

of the times," preserve some remembrance of their pa­

lace, their mint, their tribunal, their edicts, and the

sword of justice, which, as late as the thirteenth century,

was derived from Caesar to the prefect of the city.x

Between the arts of the popes and the violence of the

people, this supremacy was crushed and annihilated.

Content with the titles of emperor and Augustus, the

successors of Charlemagne neglected to assert this lo­

cal jurisdiction. In the hour of prosperity, their ambi­

tion was diverted by more alluring objects; and in the

decay and division of the empire, they were oppressed

by the defence of their hereditary provinces. Amidst

the ruins of Italy, the famous Marozia invited

Revolt of •"

one oi the usurpers to assume the character of

''938' her third husband; and Hugh, king of Bur­

gundy, was introduced by her faction into the mole of

Hadrian or castle of St. Angelo, which commands the

principal bridge and entrance of Rome. Her son by

the first marriage, Alberic, was compelled to attend at

the nuptial banquet; but his reluctant and ungraceful

• For the history of the emperors in Rome and Italy, see Sigonius de Regno

it.ili.i-, Opp- torn. 2. with the notes of Saxius, and the Annals of Muratori,
who

might refer more distinctly to the authors of his great collection.

1 See the Dissertation of Le Blanc at the end of his Treatise des Monnoyes de

France, in which he produces some Roman coins of the French emperort.

VOL. VI. R

