492 ROMAN EMPIRE.

banquet/ The courtiers would surely praise the libe­

rality of his grandson Almamon, who gave away four-

fifths of the income of a province, a sum of two millions

four hundred thousand gold dinars, before he drew his

foot from the stirrup. At the nuptials of the same prince,

a thousand pearls of the largest size were showered on

the head of the bride,2 and a lottery of-lands and houses

displayed the capricious bounty of fortune. The glories

of the court were brightened rather than impaired in the

decline of the empire; and a Greek ambassador might

admire or pity the magnificence of the feeble Moctader.

The caliph's whole army (says the historian Abulfeba),

both horse and foot, was under arms, which together

made a body of one hundred and s'ucty thousand men. His

state-officers, the favourite slaves, stood near him in

splendid apparel, their belts glittering with gold and gems.

Near them were seven thousand eunuchs, four thousand

of them white, the remainder black. The porters or

doorkeepers were in number seven hundred. Barges and

boats, with the most superb decorations, were seen swim­

ming upon the Tigris. Nor was thepalace itself less splen­

did, in which were hung up thirty-eight thousand pieces

of tapestry, twelve thousand Jive hundred of which were

of silk embroidered with gold. The carpets on the floor

were twenty-two thousand. A hundred lions were brought

out, with a keeper to each lion." Among the other spec­

tacles of rure and stupendous luxury, was a tree of gold

and silver spreading into eighteen larger branches, on

which, and on the lesser boughs, sat a variety of birds

J D'Herbelot, p. 530. Abulfeda, p. 154. Nivem Meccam apportavit, rem ibi

aut nunquam aut rarissime visarn.

'Abulfeda, p. 184.189. describes the splendour and liberality of Almamon.

Milton has alluded to this oriental custom:

— Or where the gorgeous east, with richest band.

Showers on her kings Barbaric pearls and gold.

I have used the modern word lottery, to express the mistitia of the Roman
empe­

ror*, which entitled to some prize the person who caught them, as they were

thrown among the crowd.

> When Bell of Antermony (Travels, vol. 1. p. 99.) accompanied the Russian

ambassador to the audience of the unfortunate Shah Hussein of Persia, lira
lions

were introduced, to denote the power of the king over ihe fiercest animals.

