CHAP. L. 30 J

blessed inhabitants with a liberal taste for harmony and

science, conversation and friendship, he idly celebrates

the pearls and diamonds, the robes of silk, palaces of

marble, dishes of gold, rich wines, artificial dainties, nu­

merous attendants, and the whole train of sensual and

costly luxury, which becomes insipid to the owner, even

in the short period of this mortal life. Seventy-two

kauris, or black-eyed girls, of resplendent beauty, bloom­

ing youth, virgin-purity, and exquisite sensibility, will

be created for the use of the meanest believer; a moment

of pleasure will be prolonged to a thousand years, and

his faculties will be increased a hundred-fold, to render

him worthy of his felicity. Notwithstanding a vulgar

prejudice, the gates of heaven will be open to both sexes;

but Mahomet has not specified the male companions of

the female elect, lest he should either alarm the jealousy

of their former husbands, or disturb their felicity, by the

suspicion of an everlasting marriage. This image of a

carnal paradise has provoked the indignation, perhaps

the envy of the monks: they declaim against the impure

religion of Mahomet; and his modest apologists are

driven to the poor excuse of figures and allegories. But

the sounder and more consistent party adhere, without

shame, to the literal interpretation of the Koran; useless

would be the resurrection of the body, unless it were re­

stored to the possession and exercise of its worthiest

faculties; and the union of sensual and intellectual en­

joyment is requisite to complete the happiness of the

double animal, the perfect man. Yet the joys of the

Mahometan paradise will not be confined to the indul­

gence of luxury and appetite; and the prophet has ex­

pressly declared, that all meaner happiness will be for­

gotten and despised by the saints and martyrs, who shall

be admitted to the beatitude of the divine vision."

'For the day of judgment, hell, paradise, &c. consult the Koran, (c. 2. v. 25.

c. 56. 78, &c.) with Maracci's virulent, but learned, refutation, (in his
notes, and

in the Frodromus, part 4. p. 78.120. 122, &c.) d'Herbelot, (Bibliotheque
Orien-

tale, p. 368. 375.) Reland, (p. 47—61.) and Sale. (76—103.) The original

