CHAP. LII. 479

of the French monarchy invited the attack of these insa­

tiate fanatics. The descendants of Clovis had lost the

inheritance of his martial and ferocious spirit; and their

misfortune or demerit has affixed the epithet of lazy to

the last kings of the Merovingian race.0 They ascended

the throne without power, and sunk into the grave with­

out a name. A country palace, in the neighbourhood of

Compeigne,d was allotted for their residence or prison;

but each year, in the month of March or May, they were

conducted in a waggon drawn by oxen to the assembly

of the Franks, to give audience to foreign ambassadors,

and to ratify the acts of the mayor of the palace. That

domestic officer was become the minister of the nation,

and the master of the prince. A public employment

was converted into the patrimony of a private family:

the elder Pepin left a king of mature years under the

guardianship of his own widow and her child; and these

feeble regents were forcibly dispossessed by the most

active of his bastards. A government, half savage and

half corrupt, was almost dissolved; and the tributary

dukes, the provincial counts, and the territorial lords,

were tempted to despise the weakness of the monarch,

and to imitate the ambition of the mayor. Among these

independent chiefs, one of the boldest and most success­

ful, was Eudes, duke of Aquitain, who, in the southern

provinces of Gaul, usurped the authority and even the

had before him the Christian chronicle of Isidore Pacensis, and the Mahometan

history of Novairi. The Moslems are silent or concise in the account of their

losses, bnt M. Cardonne (torn. 1. p. 129—131.) Has given a pure and simple ac­

count of all that he could collect from Ibn Halikan, Hidjazi, nml an anonymous

writer. The texts of the chronicles of France, and lives of saints, are
inserted in

the collection of Bouquet (torn. 3.) and the annals of Pagi, who (torn. 3.
under the

proper years) has restored the chronology, which is anticipated six years ia
the

Annals of Baronius. The Dictionary of Bayle (Abderame and Munuza) has more

merit for lively reflection than original research.

c Eginbart, de Vita Caroli Magni, c. 2. p. 13—18. edit . Schmink, Utrecht,
1711.

Some modem critics accuse the minister of Charlemagne of exaggerating theweak-

ness of the Merovingians; but the general outline is just, and tin. French
reader

will for ever repeat the beautiful lines of Boileau's Lutrin.

d Mamacca on the Oyse, between Compeigne and Noyon, which Eginhart calls

perparvi reditfis villarn. (See the notes, and the map of ancient France for
Dom.

Bouquet's Collection.) Compendium, or Compeigne, was a palace of more dig-

nity, (Hadrian. Valesii Notitia Galliarum, p. 152.) and that laughing
philosopher,

the abW Galliani (Dialogues sUr le Commerce des Bleds), may truly affirm, that

it was the residence of the roia tres Chretiens et tres chevelus.

