-" CHAP. L. .139

venting their common enemies, and wisely rejected his

courteous offer df abdicating the government of the Ara­

bians. After a reign of two years, the aged caliph was

summoned by the angel of death. In his testament, with

the tacit approbation of the companions, he bequeathed

the sceptre to the firm and intrepid virtue of Omar. /

have no occasion (said the modest candidate) for the

place.—But the place has occasion for you, replied Abu-

beker; who expired with a fervent prayer that

A. D. 634, the god of Mahomet would ratify his choice, and

y ' direct the Mussulmans in the way of concord and

obedience. The prayer was not ineffectual, since Al

i

himself, in a life of privacy and prayer, professed to re­

vere the superior worth and dignity of his rival; who

comforted him for the loss of empire, by the most flat­

tering marks of confidence and esteem. In the twelfth

year of his reign, Omar received a mortal wound from

the hand of an assassin; he rejected with equal impar­

tiality the names of his son and of Ali, refused to load

his conscience with the sins of his successor, and devolved

on six of the most respectable companions, the arduous

task of electing a commander of the faithful. On this

occasion, Ali was again blamed by his friends11 for sub­

mitting his right to the judgment of men, for recognizing

their jurisdiction by accepting a place among the six

electors. He might have obtained their suffrage, had he

deigned to promise a strict and servile conformity, not

only to the Koran and tradition, but likewise to the de-

...., terminations of two seniors.' With these li-

ofOthman,

A. D. 644, nutations, Othman, the secretary of Mahomet,

accepted the government; nor was it till after

"Particularly by bis friend and cousin Abdallah, tbe son of Abbas, who died

A. D. 687, with the title of grand doctor of the Moslems. In Abulfeda be
recapi­

tulated tbe important occasions in which Ali had neglected bin salutary
advice;

(p. 76. vers. Reiske) and concludes, (p. 85.) 0 princeps fidelium, absque
contro-

versia tu quidem vere fortis es, at inops boni consilii, et rerun gerendarum
parunt

callens.

11 suspect that the two seniors (Abulpharagius, p. 115. Ockley, torn. 1. p.
371.)

may signify not two actual counsellors, but hit two predecessors, Abubeker and

Omar.

z2

