CHAP. XLVII. 27

pus, where he was resisted, threatened, and confined, by

the magistrates in the interest of Nestorius and the ori­

entals; who assembled the troops of Lydia and Ionia to

suppress the fanatic and disorderly train of the patriarch.

Without expecting the royal licence, he escaped from

his guards, precipitately embarked, deserted the im­

perfect synod, and retired to his episcopal fortress of

safety and independence. But his artful emissaries,

both in the court and city, successfully laboured to ap­

pease the resentment, and to conciliate the favour, of

the emperor. The feeble son of Arcadius was alter­

nately swayed by his wife and sister, by the eunuchs and

women of the palace; superstition and avarice were

their ruling passions; and the orthodox chiefs were

assiduous in their endeavours to alarm the former, and

to gratify the latter. Constantinople and the suburbs

were sanctified with frequent monasteries, and the holy

abbots, Dalmatius and Eutyches,0 had devoted their

zeal and fidelity to the cause of Cyril, the worship of

Mary, and the unity of Christ. From the first moment

t»f their monastic life, they had never mingled with the

world, or trode the profane ground of the city. But in

this awful moment of the danger of the church, their

vow was superseded by a more sublime and indispens­

able duty. At the head of a long^order of monks and

hermits, who carried burning tapers in their hands,

and chanted litanies to the mother of God, they pro­

ceeded from their monasteries to the palace. The peo­

ple was edified and inflamed by this extraordinary spec­

tacle, and the trembling monarch listened to the prayers

and adjurations of the saints, who boldly pronounced,

that none could hope for salvation, unless they embraced

the person and the creed of the orthodox successor

of Athanasius. At the same time every avenue of the

throne was assaulted with gold. Under the decent names

e Eutychee, the heresiarcb. Eutyches, is honourably named by Cyril as a
friend, a

saint, and the strenuous defender of the faith. His brother, the abbot
Dalmatius,

j» likewise employed to bind the emperor and all his chamberlains terribili
conju-

ratione. Syuodicon, c. 203. in Concil. torn. 4. p. 467.

