CHAP. XLVII. 75

Erivan were dispeopled by the cruel policy of the So­

phies; and myriads of Christian families were trans­

planted to perish or to propagate in the distant provinces

of Persia. Under the rod of oppression, the zeal of

the Armenians is fervent and intrepid: they have often

preferred the crown of martyrdom to the white turban

of Mahomet; they devoutly hate the error and idolatry

of the Greeks; and their transient union with the La­

tins is not less devoid of truth, than the thousand bi­

shops whom their patriarch offered at the feet of the

Roman pontiff.11 The Catholic or patriarch of the Ar­

menians resides in the monastery of Ekmiasin, three

leagues from Erivan. Forty-seven archbishops, each

of whom may claim the obedience of four or five suffra­

gans, are consecrated by his hand; but the far greater

part are only titular prelates, who dignify with their

presence and service the simplicity of his court. As

soon as they have performed the liturgy, they cultivate

the garden; and our bishops will hear with surprise,

that the austerity of their life increases in just propor­

tion to the elevation of their rank. In the fourscore

thousand towns or villages of his spiritual empire, the

patriarch receives a small and voluntary tax from each

person above the age of fifteen; but the annual amount

of six hundred thousand crowns is insufficient to sup­

ply the incessant demands of charity and tribute. Since

the beginning of the last century, the Armenians have

obtained a large and lucrative share of the commerce

of the east: in their return from Europe, the caravan

usually halts in the neighbourhood of Erivan; the al­

tars are enriched with the fruits of their patient indus­

try; and the faith of Eutyches is preached in their re­

cent congregations of Barbary and Poland.0

d See a remarkable fact of the twelfth century in the History of Nicetns Cho-

niatcs. (p. 258.) Yet three hundred years before, Pholius (Epistol. 2. p. 49.
edit.

Montacul) had gloried in the conversion of the Armenians—Xarftw n/^tpv
ej8oJo£»;.

'The travellmg Armenians are in the way of every traveller, and their mother-

church is on the high road between Constantinople and Ispahan: for their
present

state, see Fabricius, (Lax Evangelii, &c. c. 38. p. 40—51.) Olearius, (lib. 4.
c.

40.) Chardin, (vol. 2. p. 233.) Tonrnefort, (lettre 20.) and, above all,
Taver­

