102 ROMAN HISTORY.

r '!

two emissaries of the .khan, Justjnian sept back bis wife

'to tier brother, and embarked on the Euxine in search

of new and more faithful allies. His vessel was assault­

ed by a violent tempest; and one of his pious compa­

nions advised him to deserve the mercy of God by a vow

of general forgiveness, if he should be restored to the

throne. Of forgiveness? (replied the intrepid tyrant)

may I perish this instant—may the Almighty whelm me

in the waves—if I consent to spare a single head of my

enemies! He survived this impious menace, sailed into

the mouth of the Danube, trusted his person in the royal

.village of the Bulgarians, and purchased the aid of Ter-

.belis, a Pagan conqueror, by the promise of his daugh­

ter and a fair partition of the treasures of the empire.

The Bulgarian kingdom extended to the confines of

Thrace; and the two prinqes besieged Constantinople at

the head of fifteen thousand horse. Apsimar was dis­

mayed by the sudden and hostile apparition, of his rival,

whose head had been promised by the C^ozar, and of

whose evasion he was yet ignorant. After an absence

of ten years, the crimes of Justinian were faintly remem­

bered, and the birth and misfortunes of their hereditary

sovereign excited the pity of the multitude, ever discon­

tented with the ruling powers; and by the active dili­

gence of his adherents, he was introduced into the city

and palace of Constantine.

His re In rewarding his allies and recalling his wife,

storation Justinian displayed some sense of honour and

A. D. 705' gratitude; and Terbelis retired, after sweeping

~711' away a heap of gold coin, which he measured

with his Scythian whip. But never was vow more re­

ligiously performed than the sacred oath of revenge

which he had sworn amidst the storms of the Euxine.

The two usurpers, for I must reserve the name of ty­

rant for the conqueror, were dragged into the hippo­

drome, the one from his prison, the other from his palace.

Before their execution, Leontius and Apsimar were cast

