10 ROMAN EMPIRE.

fer; that human nature is never absolutely perfect; and

that the cross and passion might serve to expiate the

venial transgressions of the son of Joseph, before his

mysterious union with the Son of God.q

iv.Divine IV. All those who believe the immateriality

tke soul, a specious and noble tenet, must

confess, from their present experience, the in­

comprehensible union of mind and matter. A similar

union is not inconsistent with a much higher, or even

with the highest, degree of mental faculties; and the

incarnation of an aeon or archangel, the most perfect

of created spirits, does not involve any positive contra­

diction or absurdity. In the age of religious freedom,

which was determined by the council of Nice, the dig­

nity of Christ was measured by private judgment, ac­

cording to the indefinite rule of Scripture, or reason, or

tradition. But when his pure and proper divinity had

been established on the ruins of Arianism, the faith of

the Catholics trembled on the edge of a precipice,

where it was impossible to recede, dangerous to stand,

dreadful to fall; and the manifold inconveniences of

their creed were aggravated by the sublime character

of their theology. They hesitated to pronounce, that

God himself, the second person of an equal and con-

substantial trinity, was manifested in the flesh ;r that a

being who pervades the universe, had been confined in

the womb of Mary; that his eternal duration had been

marked by the days, and months, and years, of human

i The heretics abused the passionate exclamation of " My God, my God, why

hast Hum forsaken me!" Rousseau, who has drawn an eloquent, but indecent pa­

rallel between Christ and Socrates, forgets that not a word of impatience or
de­

spair escaped from the mouth of the dying philosopher. In the Messiah, such

sentiments could be only apparent; and such Ul-sounding words are properly ex­

plained as the application of a psalm and prophecy.

'This strong expression might be justified by the language of St. Paul; (1
Tirn.

iii. 16.) but we are deceived by our modem Bibles. The word 8 (which) was al­

tered to flu* (God) at Constantinople in the beginning of the sixth century:
the

true reading, which is visible in the Latin and Syriac versions, still exists
in the

reasoning of the Greek, as well as of the Latin fathers; and this fraud, with
that

of the three witnesses of St. John, is admirably detected by sir Isaac Newton.

(See his two letters translated by M. de Missy, in the Journal Britannique,
torn.

15. p. 148—190. 351—390.) I have weighed the arguments, and may yield to

the authority, of the first of philosophers, who was deeply skilled in
critical and

theological studies.'

