CHAP. LI. 379

s. of cus,' encouraged the Arabs to besiege the ancient

Damascus,capital of Syria.8 At some distance from the walls,

°'they encamped among the groves and fountains

of that delicious territory,11 and the usual option of the

Mahometan faith, of tribute or of war, was proposed to

the resolute citizens, who had been lately strengthened

by a reinforcement of five thousand Greeks. In the de­

cline as in the infancy of the military art, a hostile de­

fiance was frequently offered and accepted by the gene-

nerals themselves:' many a lance was shivered in the

plain of Damascus, and the personal prowess of Caled

was signalized in the first sally of the besieged. After

an obstinate combat, he had overthrown and made pri­

soner one of the Christian leaders, a stout and worthy an­

tagonist. He instantly mounted a fresh horse, the gift

of the governor of Palmyro, and pushed forwards to the

front of the battle. Repose yourself for a moment (said

his friend Der&r) and permit me to supply your place: you

are fatigued with fighting with this dog.—O Derar! (re­

plied the indefatigable Saracen) we shall rest in the

world to come. He that labours to-day shall rest to-mor-

rmv. With the same unabated ardour, Caled answered,

encountered, and vanquished a second champion; and

the heads of his two captives, who refused to abandon

1 Damascus is amply described by the Sherif al Edrisi, (Geograph. Nub. p. 116,

117.) and his translator, Sionita, (Appendix, c. 4.) Abulfeda,.(TabulaSyria,
p. 100.)

Schultens, (Index, Geograph. ad. Vit. Saladin.) d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient.

p. 291.) Thevenot, Voyage du Levant, (part 1. p. 688—698.) Maundrell, (Jour­

ney from Aleppo to Jerusalem, p. 122—130.) and Pocock- (Description of the

East, vol. «. p. 117—127.)

s Nobilissima civitas, says Justin. According to the oriental traditions, it
was

older than Abraham or Semiramis. Joseph. Antiq. Jud. lib. 1. c. 6, 7. p. 24.
29.

-edit. Havercamp.. Justin, 36. 2.

*' El« yag oifAai iuy Ato; ffoXiy aXqda;, xaf Tiif *Eaa; afra?it? o$daXlUly, TIJY ffpar y.ai  
fivyimt Aa/uawxer Xiyv, TO*? n aXXoi; ey/Airo-a-a, oiov iigav xaXXif, xai vliv
ltttyffU*. Ken

Saftn ivKMfla xai irqyay ayXaia Xdl fftra/uvv TXsOii, xai yr,- tv$ifui
vuttway, &c. Julian,

epist. 24. p. 392. The.'e splendid epithets are occasioned by the figs of
Damascus,

of which the author sends a hundred to his friend Serapion, and this
rhetorical theme

is inserted by Petavius, Spanheim, &c. (p. 390—396.) among the genuine
epistles

of Julian. How could they overlook that the writer is an inhabitant of
Damascus

(he thrice affirms, that this peculiar.fig grows only *»{' n/wir), a city
which Julian

never entered or approached?

1 Voltaire, who caste a keen and lively glance over the surface of history,
has been

etruck with the resemblance of the first Moslems and the heroei of the Iliad;
the

siege of Troy and that of Damascus. (Ilist. Generate, torn. 1. p, 348.)

