144 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Zoe and forced the gates, recalled their mothers, Zoe from

A. D.1042, her prison, Theodora from her monastery, and

April 21. condemned the son of Calaphates to the loss

of his eyes or of his life. For the first time the Greeks

beheld with surprise the two royal sisters seated on the

same throne, presiding in the senate, and giving au­

dience to the ambassadors of the nations. But this

singular union subsisted no more than two months: the

two sovereigns, their tempers, interests, and adherents,

were secretly hostile to each other; and as Theodora

was still adverse to marriage, the indefatigable Zoe, at

the age of sixty, consented, for the public good, to sus­

tain the embraces of a third husband, and the censures

of the Greek church. His name and number were

Constan- Constantine X. and the epithet of Monomachus,

Sonoma- the single combatant, must have been expressive

ch<is- of his valour and victory in some public or pri-

A.D. io4z, vate quarrel. But his health was broken by the

tortures of the gout, and his dissolute reign was

spent in the alternative of sickness and pleasure. A fair

and noble widow had accompanied Constantine in his

exile to the isle of Lesbos, and Sclerena gloried in the

appellation of his mistress. After his marriage and

elevation, she was invested with the title and pomp of

Augusta, and occupied a contiguous apartment in the

palace. The lawful consort (such was the delicacy or

corruption of Zoe) consented to this strange and scan­

dalous partition; and the emperor appeared in public

between his wife and his concubine. He survived them

both; but the last measures of Ccnstantine to change

the order of succession were prevented by the more vi-

Theodoia g'lant friends of Theodora; and after his de-

A.D.1054, cease, she resumed, with the general consent, the

possession of her inheritance. In her name, and

by the influence of four eunuchs, the eastern world was

peaceably governed about nineteen months; and as they

