200 ROMAN EMPIRE.

and a reservoir of fresh water is preserved in a large bag,

a fifth stomach of the animal, whose body is imprinted

with the marks of servitude: the larger breed is capable

of transporting a weight of a thousand pounds; and the

dromedary, of a lighter and more active frame, outstrips

the fleetest courser in the race. Alive or dead, almost

every part of the camel is serviceable to man: her milk

is plentiful and nutritious: the younger and tender flesh

has the taste of veal:" a valuable salt is extracted from

the urine: the dung supplies the deficiency of fuel; and

the long hair,-which falls each year and is renewed, is

coarsely manufactured into the garments, the furniture,

and the tents, of the Bedoweens. In the rainy seasons

they consume the rare and insufficient herbage of the de­

sert: during the heats of summer and the scarcity of win­

ter, they remove their encampments to the sea-coast, the

hills of Yemen, or the neighbourhood of the Euphrates,

and have often extorted the dangerous licence of visit­

ing the banks of the Nile, and the villages of Syria and

Palestine. The life of a wandering Arab is a life of

danger and distress; and though sometimes, by rapine

or exchange, he may appropriate the fruits of industry,

a private citizen in Europe is in the possession of more

solid and pleasing luxury, than the proudest emir, who

marches in the field at the head of ten thousand horse,

cities of Yet an essential difference may be found be-

Arabia. tween the nordes of Scythia and the Arabian

tribes, since many of the latter were collected into towns

and employed in the labours of trade and agriculture.

A part of their time and industry was still devoted to

the management of their cattle: they mingled, in peace

and war, with their brethren of the desert; and the

Bedoweens derived from their useful intercourse, some

supply of their wants, and some rudiments of art and

"Qui camibus camelorum vesci solent odii tenaces sunt, was the opinion of an

Arabian Physician. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 8R ) Mahomet himself, who was fond of

milk, prefers the cow, and does not even mention the camel; but the diet of
Mecca,

and Medina was already more luxurious. (Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p.
4O4.)

