450 ROMAN EMPIRE.

those who had fallen in the siege, or retired to Gallicia,

was confiscated as the reward of the faithful. In the

midway between Merida and Toledo, the lieutenant of

Musa saluted the vicegerent of the caliph, and con­

ducted him to the palace of the Gothic kings. Their

first interview was cold and formal: a rigid account

was exacted of the treasures of Spain; the character of

Tarik was exposed to suspicion and obloquy; and the

hero was imprisoned,reviled, and ignominiouslyscourged

by the hand, or the command, of Musa. Yet so strict

was the discipline, so pure the zeal, or so tame the spirit,

of the primitive Moslems, that after this public indignity,

Tarik could serve and be trusted in the reduction of the

Tarragonese province. A mosch was erected at Sara-

gossa, by the liberality of the Koreish: the port of Bar­

celona was opened to the vessels of Syria; and the Goths

'were pursued beyond thePyrennean mountains into their

Gallic province of Septimania or Languedoc.* In the

church of St. Mary at Carcassone, Musa found, but it

is improbable that he left, seven equestrian statues of

massy silver; and from his term or column of Narbonne,

he returned on his footsteps to the Gallician and Lusi-

tanian shores of the ocean. During the absence of the

father, his son Abdelaziz chastised the insurgents of Se­

ville, and reduced, from Malaga to Valentia, the sea-

coast of the Mediterranean: his original treaty with the

discreet and valiant Theodemir," will represent the man­

ners and policy of the times. " The conditions of peace

agreed and sworn between Abdelaziz, the son of Musa, the

* Both the interpreters of Novairi.de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 549.)  
and Cardonne, (Hist . de 1'Afriqne et de 1'Espagne, torn. l.p. 93,
94.104,105.) lead

Musa into the Narbonnese Gaul. But I find no mention of this enterprise either

in Roderic of Toledo, or the MSS. of the Eicurial, and the invasion of the
Sara­

cens is postponed by a French chronicle till the ninth year after the conquest
of

Spain, A. D. T3l. (Fagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 177.193. Historians of France,
torn.

3.) I much question whether Musa ever crossed the Pyrennees.

• Four hundred years afterTheodemir, his territories of Murcia and Carthagena

retain in the Nubian geographer Edrisi(p. 154.161.) the name of Tadmir. (D'An-

ville, Etats de 1'Europe, p. 1o6. Pagi, torn. 3. p. 174.) In the present decay
of

Spanish agriculture, Mr. Swinburne (Travels into Spain, p. 119.) surveyed with

pleasure the delicious valley from Murcia to Orihuela, four leagues and a half
of

the finest corn, pulse, lucern, oranges, &c. •

