02 ROMAN EMPIRE.

GARIANS, and V. RUSSIANS, who assaulted by sea or

by land the provinces and the capital: but the last of

these, so important in their present greatness, will ex­

cite some curiosity in their origin and infancy. VI.

The NORMANS: or rather the private adventures of

that warlike people, who founded a powerful kingdom

in Apulia and Sicily, shook the throne of Constanti­

nople, displayed the trophies of chivalry, and almost

realized the wonders of romance. VII. The LATINS;

the subjects of the pope, the nations of the west, who

enlisted under the banner of the cross for the recovery

or relief of the holy sepulchre. The Greek emperors

were terrified and preserved by the myriads of pilgrims

who marched to Jerusalem with Godfrey of Bouillon

and the peers of Christendom. The second and third

crusades trod in the footsteps of the first: Asia and Eu­

rope were mingled in a sacred war of two hundred

years; and the Christian powers were bravely resisted,

and finally expelled, by Saladin and the Mamalukes of

Egypt. In these memorable crusades, a fleet and army

of French and Venetians were diverted from Syria to the

Thracian Bosphorus: they assaulted the capital, they

subverted the Greek monarchy; and a dynasty of Latin

princes was seated near threescore years on the throne

of Constantine. VIII. The GREEKS themselves,

during this period of captivity and exile, must be consi­

dered as a foreign nation; the enemies, and again the

sovereigns, of Constantinople. Misfortune had rekin­

dled a spark of national virtue; and the imperial series

may be continued with some dignity from their resto­

ration to the Turkish conquests. IX. The MOGULS

and TARTARS. By the arms of Zingis and his de­

scendants, the globe was shaken from China to Poland

and Greece; the sultans were overthrown; the caliphs

fell, and the Caesars trembled on their throne. The

victories of Timour suspended above fifty years the

final ruin of the Byzantine empire. X. I have already

