CHAP. LI. 457

policy supplied the obligation of justice; and aftersome

acts of intolerant zeal, the Mahometan conquerors of

Hindostan have spared the pagods of that devout and

populous country. The disciples of Abraham, of Moses,

and of Jesus, were solemnly invited to accept the more

perfect revelation of Mahomet; but if they prefer­

red the payment of a moderate tribute, they were en­

titled to the freedom of conscience and religious wor-

Propaga- ship." In a field of battle, the forfeit lives of the

tionof Ma-prisoners were redeemed by the profession of

bometisui.

Islam; the females were bound to embrace the

religion of their masters, and a race of sincere proselytes

was gradually multiplied by the education of the infant

captives. But the millions of Asiatic and African con­

verts, who swelled the native band of the faithful Arabs,

must have been allured, rather than constrained, to de­

clare their belief in one God and the apostle of God. By

the repetition of a sentence and the loss of a foreskin,

the subject or the slave, the captive or the criminal,

arose in a moment the free and equal companion of the

victorious Moslems. Every sin was expiated, every en­

gagement was dissolved: the vow of celibacy was su­

perseded by the indulgence of nature; the active spi­

rits who slept in the cloister were awakened by the trum­

pet of the Saracens : and in the convulsion of the world,

every member of a new society ascended to the natural

level of his capacity and courage. The minds of the

multitude were tempted by the invisible as well as tem­

poral blessings of the Arabian prophet; and charity will

hope, that many of his proselytes entertained a serious

conviction of the truth and sanctity of his revelation. In

God, worship the sun, moon, or idols. 2. Atheists. Utrique, quamdiu princeps

aliquis inter Mohammedanos superest, oppugnari debent donee religionem amplec-

tantur, nee requies us concedenda est, nee pretium acceptandum pro obtinenda

conscientiae libertate : (Reland, Dissertat. 10. de jure Militari Mohammedan,
torn.

3. p. 14.) a rigid theory!

"The distinction between a proscribed and a tolerated sect, between the Harbii

and the people of the Book, the oelievers in some divine revelation, is
correctly de­

fined in the conversation of the caliph AI Mamun with the idolaters, or
Sabaeans, of

Charra. Hottinger, Hist. Orient, p. 107, 108.

