CHAP. XLIX. 223

of loving with too fond a passion. I shall be scarcely

permitted to accuse the ambition of a conqueror; but in

a day of equal retribution, the sons of his brother Car*

loman, the Merovingian princes of Aquitain, and the four

thousand five hundred Saxons who were beheaded on the

same spot, would have something to allege against the

justice and humanity of Charlemagne. His treatment

of the vanquished Saxonsf was an abuse of the right of

conquest; his laws were not less sanguinary than his

arms, and in the discussion of his motives, whatever is

substracted from bigotry must be imputed to temper.

The sedentary reader is amazed by his incessant activity

of mind and body; and his subjects and enemies were

notless astonished at his sudden presence, at the moment

when they believed him at the most distant extremity of

the empire; neither peace nor war, nor summer nor win­

ter, were a season of repose: and our fancy cannot easily

reconcile the annals of his reign with the geography of

his expeditions. But this activity was a national rather

than a personal virtue; the vagrant life of a Frank was

spent in the chase, in pilgrimage, in military adventures;

and the journeys of Charlemagne were distinguished

only by a more numerous train and a more important

purpose. His military renown must be tried by the

scrutiny of his troops, his enemies, and his actions.

Alexander conquered with the arms of Philip, but the

itvo heroes who preceded Charlemagne, bequeathed him

their name, their examples, and the companions of their

victories. At the head of his veteran and superior armies,

he oppressed the savage or degenerate nations, who were

incapable of confederating for their common safety: nor

did he ever encounter an equal antagonist in numbers,

eels, without excepting his own wife (c. 19- p. 98—100, cum Notis Schmincke.)

The husband most have been too strong for the historian.

1 Besides the massacres and transmigrations, the pain of death was pronounced

against the following crimes.—1. The refusal of baptisrn. 2. The false
pretence of

baptisrn. 3. A relapse to idolatry. 4. The murder of a priest or bishop. 5.
Human

sacrifices. 6. Eating meat in Lent. But every crime might be expiated by bap-

tism or penance: (Gaillard, torn. 2. p. 241—247. )and the Christian Saxons
became

the friends and equals of the Franks. (Struv. Corpus Hist. Germanicae, p.
133.)

