188 ROMAN EMPIRE.

mency or justice of the conqueror. The son of Leo, in

the first year of his reign, had undertaken an expedition

against the Saracens: during his absence, the capital,

the palace, and the purple, were occupied by his kinsman

Artavasdes, the ambitious champion of the orthodox

faith. The worship of images was triumphantly re­

stored ; the patriarch renounced his dissimulation, or dis­

sembled his sentiments; and the righteous claim of the

usurper was acknowledged, both in the new and in an­

cient Rome. Constantine flew for refuge to his paternal

mountains; but he descended at the head of the bold and

affectionate Isaurians; and his final victory confounded

the arms and predictions of the fanatics. His long reign

was distracted with clamour, sedition, conspiracy, and

mutual hatred, and sanguinary revenge: the persecution

of images was the motive, or pretence, of his adversaries;

and, if they missed a temporal diadem, they were reward­

ed by the Greeks with the crown of martyrdom. In

every act of open and clandestine treason, the emperor

felt the unforgiving enmity of the monks, the faithful

slaves of the superstition to which they owed their riches

and influence. They prayed, they preached, they ab­

solved, they inflamed, they conspired; the solitude of

Palestine poured forth a torrent of invective; and the

pen of St. John Damascenus/ the last of the Greek fa­

thers, devoted the tyrant's head, both in this world and

the next.1 I am not at leisure to examine how far the

monks provoked, nor how much they have exaggerated,

J John, or Mansur, was a noble Christian of Damascus, who held a consider­

able office in the service of the caliph. His zeal in the cause of images
exposed

him to the resentment and treachery of the Greek emperor; and on the suspicion

of a treasonable correspondence, he was deprived of his right hand, which was
mi­

raculously restored by the Virgin. After this deliverance, he resigned his
office,

distributed his wealth, and buried himself in the monastery of St. Sebaa,
between

Jerusalem and the Dead Sea. The legend is famous; but his learned editor, fa­

ther Lequien, has unluckily proved that St. John Damascenus was already a monk

before the Iconoclast dispute. (Opera, torn. 1. Vit , St. Joan. Damascen. p.
10—

13. et Notas ad loc.)

* After sending Leo to the devil, he introduces his heir—TO juiapgr aurou -,i;-.r/i,i.  
iuu nt xaxia; »UTOU xXnjwoiuo; i» Jurx» ytnftaot. (Opera Damascen. torn. 1. p.
625.)

If the authenticity of this piece be suspicious, we are sure that in other
works, no

longer extant, Damascenns bestowed on Constantine the title of nai M»M^n8,
Xpr-

ro/taxpi, mraXiov. (torn. 1. p. 306.)

