190 ROMAN KM PI RE.

ample revenue; and the weakness or neglect of the

emperors compelled them to consult, both in peace

and war, the temporal safety of the city. In the

school of adversity the priest insensibly imbibed the

virtues and the ambition of a prince; the same character

was assumed, the same policy was adopted, by the Italian,

the Greek, or the Syrian, who ascended the chair of St.

Peter; and, after the loss of her legions and provinces,

the genius and fortune of the popes again restored the

supremacy of Rome. It is agreed, that in the eighth

century, their dominion was founded on rebellion, and

that the rebellion was produced, and justified, by the he­

resy of the Iconoclasts; but the conduct of the second and

third Gregory, in this memorable contest, is variously

interpreted by the wishes of their friends and enemies.

The Byzantine writers unanimously declare, that, after a

fruitless admonition, they pronounced the separation of

the east and west, and deprived the sacrilegious tyrant

of the re venue and sovereignty of Italy. Their excommu­

nication is still more clearly expressed by the Greeks, who

beheld the accomplishment of the papal triumphs; and

as they are more strongly attached to their religion than

to their country, they praise, instead of blaming, the zeal

and orthodoxy of these apostolical men.0 The modern

champions of Rome are eager to accept the praise and

the precedent: this great and glorious example of the

deposition of royal heretics is celebrated by the cardinals

Baronius and Bellarmine ;a and if they are asked, why

the same thunders were not hurled against the Neros and

Julians of antiquity; they reply, that the weakness of

the primitive church was the sole cause of her patient

» Ktu Tm Px/iun rut -xa-r, iraXia rut #acriXtia; alinu alrwruirf, says
Theophanes.

(Chronograph, p. 343.) For this Gregory is styled by Cedrenus avuj awwnXiUf.

p. 450.) Zonaras specifies the thunder avuOn/cum 0-vwtiav. (torn. 2. lib. 15.
p. 104,

105.) It may be observed, that the Greeks are apt to 'confound the times and

actions of the two Gregories.

d See Baronius, Annal. Eccles. A. D. 730, no. 4, 5. dignum exemplum! Bel-

hiiinin, de Romano Pontifice. lib. 5. c. 8. muktavit cum parte imperil.
Sigonius,

de Regno Italiae, lib. 3. Opera, torn. •_'. p. id1.'. Yet such is th» change
of Italy,

that Sigonivw is corrected by the editor of Milan, Philippus Argelatus, a
Bolognw.

and subject of the pope.

