44 ROMAN EMPIRE.

rebellion he depopulated Thrace, besieged Constanti­

nople, exterminated sixty-five thousand of his fellow-

Christians, till he obtained the recall of the bishops, the

satisfaction of the pope, and the establishment of the

council of Chalcedon, an orthodox treaty, reluctantly

signed by the dying Anastasius, and more faithfully per­

formed by the uncle of Justinian. And such

Firat reh- » .

war. was the event of tnejir'st of the religious wars,

'"'' which have been waged in the name, and by the

disciples, of the God of Peace.k

Theoiogi- Justinian has been already seen in the vari-

cai charac- ous lights of a prince, a conqueror, and a law-

vernment giver: the theologian' still remains, and it af-

aa.A.'o! fords an unfavourable prejudice, that his theo-

519— 565.i0gy should form a very prominent feature of his.

portrait. The sovereign sympathized with his subjects

in their superstitious reverence for living and departed

saints; his code, and more especially his novels, con­

firm and enlarge the privileges of the clergy; and in

every dispute, between a monk and a layman, the partial

judge was inclined to pronounce, that truth, and inno­

cence, and justice, were always on the side of the church.

In his public and private devotions, the emperor was

assiduous and exemplary; his prayers, vigils, and fasts,

displayed the austere penance of a monk; his fancy was

amused by the hope, or belief, of personal inspiration;

he had secured the patronage of the Virgin and St. Mi­

chael the archangel: and his recovery from a dangerous

k The general history, from the council of Chalcedon to the death of
Anastasius,

maybe found in the Breviary of Liberatus, (c. 14 — 19.) the second and third
books

of Evagrius, the Abstract of the two books of Theodore the Reader, the Acts of
the

Synods, and the Epistles of the Popes. (Concil. torn. 5.) The series is
continued

with some disorder in the fifteenth and sixteenth tomes of the Memoires Eccle-

siastiques of Tillemont. And here I must take leave for ever of that
incomparable

guide— whose bigotry is overbalanced by the merits of erudition, diligence,
vera­

city, and scrupulous minuteness. He was prevented by death from completing,

as he designed the sixth century of the church and empire.

'The strain of the Anecdotes of Procopius, (c. II. 13. 18. 27, 28.) with the

learned remarks on Almannus, is confirmed, rather than contradicted, by the
Acts

of the Councils, the fourth book of Evagrius, and the complaints of the
African Fa-

cundus in his twelfth book — de tribus capitulis, "cum videri doctus appetit
impor­

tune . . . spontaueis qutBstionibus ecclesiam turbat." See Procop. de Bell.
Goth,

lib. 3. c. 35.

