304 ROMAN EMPIltE.

era, which coincides with an astronomical period," has re­

corded the fall of the Sassanian dynasty and the religion

of Zoroaster.' The youth and inexperience of the prince,

he was only fifteen years of age, declined a perilous en­

counter; the royal standard was delivered into the

hands of his general Rustam; and a remnant of thirty

thousand regular troops was swelled in truth, or in opi­

nion, to one hundred and twenty thousand subjects, or

allies, of the great king. The Moslems, whose numbers

were reinforced from twelve to thirty thousand, had

pitched their camp in the plains of Cadesia :u and their

line, though it consisted of fewer men, could produce

more soldiers than the unwieldy host of the infidels. I

shall here observe, what I must often repeat, that the

charge of the Arabs was not like that of the Greeks and

Romans, the effort of a firm and compact infantry: their

military force was chiefly formed of cavalry and archers;

and the engagement, which was often interrupted and

often renewed by single combats and flying skirmishes,

might be protracted without any decisive event to the

continuance of several days. The periods of the battle

of Cadesia were distinguished by their peculiar appella­

tions. The first, from the well-timed appearance of six

thousand of the Syrian brethren, was denominated the

• A cycle of one hundred and twenty years, the end of which an intercalary

month of thirty days, supplied the use of our bissextile, and restored the
integrity

of the solar year. In a great revolution of one thousand four hundred and
forty

years, this intercalation was successively removed from the first to the
twelftn

month ; but Hyde and Freret are involved in a profound controversy, whether
the

twelve, or only eight of these changes, were accomplished before the era of
V.. -

degerd, which is unanimously fixed to the 16th of June, A. D. 632. How labori­

ously does the curious spirit of Europe explore the darkest and most distant
anti­

quities! (Hyde and Religione Persarum, c. 14—18. p. 181—211. Freret in the

Mern. de 1'Academic des Inscriptions, torn. 16. p. 233—267.)

1 Nine days after the death of Mahomet, (7th June, A. D. 632.) we find the era

of Yezdegerd; (16th June, A. D. 632.) and his accession cannot be postponed

beyond the end of the first year. His predecessors could not therefore resist
the

arms of the caliph Omar, and these unquestionable dates overthrow the thought­

less chronology of Abulpharagius. See Ockley's Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 1.

p. 130.

"Cadesia.says the Nubian geographer,(p. 121.) is in marginesolitudinis, sixty-

one leagues from Bagdad, and two stations from Cufa. Otter (Voyage, torn. 1.

p. 163.) reckons fifteen leagues, and observes, that the place is supplied
with dates

and water.

