488 ROMAN EMPIRE.

a sixth part of that number; and the presence and merit

of the caliph Mervan, the fourteenth and last of the house

of Ommiyah. Before his accession to the throne, he

had deserved, by his Georgian warfare, the honourable

epithet of the ass of Mesopotamia;" and he might have

been ranked among the greatest princes, had not, says

Abulfeda, the eternal order decreed that moment for the

ruin of his family; a decree against which all human

prudence and fortitude must struggle in vain. The or­

ders of Mervan were mistaken or disobeyed: the return

of his horse, from which he had dismounted on a neces-

cary occasion, impressed the belief of his death; and the

enthusiasm of the black squadrons was ably conducted

by Abdallah, the uncle of his competitor. After an ir­

retrievable defeat, the caliph escaped to Mosul: but the

colours of the Abbassides were displayed from the ram­

part: he suddenly repassed the Tigris, cast a melancholy

look on his palace of Haran, crossed the Euphrates,

abandoned the fortifications of Damascus, and, without

halting in Palestine, pitched his last and fatal camp at

Busir on the banks of the Nile.0 His speed was urged

Fail of the by the incessant diligence of Abdallah, who in

A jc£I75os'every step of the pursuit acquired strength and

t'eb. 10. reputation: the remains of the white faction were

finally vanquished in Egypt; and the lance, which ter­

minated the life and anxiety of Mervan, was not less

• Al Heman. He had been governor of Mesopotamia, and the Arabic proverb

praises the courage of that warlike breed of asses who never fly from an
enemy.

The surname of Mervan may justify the comparison of Homer, (Iliad, ?.. 557.
&c.)

and both will silence the moderns, who consider the ass as a stupid and
ignoble

emblern. (D'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p.558.)

0 Four several places, all in Egypt, bore the name of Busir, or Busiria, so
famous

in Greek fable. The first, where Ain van was slain, was to the west of the
Kile,

in the province of Fium, or Arsinoe ; the second in the Delta, in the
Sebennytic

nome ; the third, near the pyramids; the fourth, which was destroyed by Uio-

clesian, in the Thebais. I shall here transcribe a note of the learned and
orthodox

Michaelis: Videntur in pluribus ^Egypti superioris urbibus Busiri Coptoque
arma

sumpsisse Christiani, libertatemque de rehgione sentiendi defendisse, sed suc-

cubuisse quo in bello Coptus et Busiris diruta, et circa Esnam masna strages
edits.

Bellum narrant aed causam belli ignorant scriptores Byzantini, alioqui Copt um
et

Busirim non rebellasse dicturi, sed caussam Christianorum suscepturi. (Not. 31
I.

p. 100.) For the geography of the four Bosirs, see Abulfeda (Descript.
.(Egypt,

p. 9. vers. Michaelis, Gottingtc, 1776, in quarto), Michaelis, (Not. 188—1!7.

p. 58—63.) and d'Anville. (Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 85. H7. 205.)

