36 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Faith of For these scandalous offences Dioscorus was

Chaicedon. deposed by the synod, and banished by the

emperor: but the purity of his faith was declared in the

presence, and with the tacit approbation, of the fathers.

Their prudence supposed, rather than pronounced, the

heresy of Eutyches, who was never summoned before

their tribunal; and they sat silent and abashed, when

a bold Monophysite, casting at their feet a volume of

Cyril, challenged them to anathematize in his person

the doctrine of the saint. If we fairly peruse the acts

of Chalcedon as they are recorded by the orthodox

party," we shall find that a great majority of the bishops

embraced the simple unity of Christ; and the ambi­

guous concession, that he was formed OF OR FROM two

natures, might imply either their previous existence, or

their subsequent confusion, or some dangerous interval

between the conception of the man and the assumption

of theGod. The Roman theology, more positive and pre­

cise, adopted the term most offensive to the ears of the

Egyptians, that Christ existed i N two natures: and this

momentous particle' (which the memory, rather than

the understanding, must retain) had almost produced a

schism among the Catholic bishops. The tome of Leo

application was unknown to the editor Brodnus. The nameless epigrammatist

raises a tolerable pun, by confounding the episcopal salutation of " Peace be
to all!"

with the genuine or corrupted name of the bishop's concubine.—

Eifim iramrm iirmmit turn iflXSm,

rii,- tuMTai man in fttnt iiJ't ax" i

I am ignorant whether the patriarch, who seems to have been a jealous lover,
is

the Cimon of a preceding epigram, whose mot imuut was viewed with envy and

wondci by Priapus himself.

• Those who reverence the infallibility of synods, may try to ascertain their

sense. The leading bishops were attended by partial or careless scribes, who
dis­

persed their copies round the world. Our Greek MSS. are sullied with the false

and proscribed reading of tx tan $iwi», (Condi, torn. 3. p. 1460.) the
authentic

translation of Pope Leo I. does not seem to have been executed; and the old
Latin

versions materially difier from the present Vnlgate, which was revised (A.D.
550.)

by Rusticus, a Roman priest, from the best MSS. of the AUCI/UHTM at Constanti­

nople, (Ducange, C. P. Christiana, lib. 4. p. 151.) a famous monastery of
Latins,

Greeks, and Syrians. See Coin. il. torn. 4. p. 1959—2049. and Paei Critica,
torn.

2. p. 326, &c.

1 It is darkly represented in the microscope of Petravius; (torn. 5. lib. 3.
c. 5.)

yet the subtle theologian is himself afraid—ne quis fortasse supervacaneam, et

minis auxiam putet hujusmodi vocularum inquisitionem, et ab instituti
theologici

gravitate alienarn. (p. 124.)

