CHAP. XL VIII. 137

as he had secured the leaders and the troops, he boldly

marched to Constantinople, trampled on his enemies,

avowed his correspondence with the empress, and,

without degrading her sons, assumed, with the title of

Augustus, the pre-eminence of rank and the plenitude

of power. But his marriage with Theophano was re­

fused by the same patriarch who had placed the crown

on his head; by his second nuptials he incurred a year

of canonical penance; a bar of spiritual affinity was

opposed to their celebration; and some evasion and

perjury were required to silence the scruples of the

clergy and people. The popularity of the emperor

was lost in the purple: in a reign of six years he pro­

voked the hatred of strangers and subjects; and the

hypocrisy and avarice of the first Nicephorus were re­

vived in his successor. Hypocrisy I shall never justify

or palliate; but I will dare to observe, that the odious

vice of avarice is of all others most hastily arraigned,

and most unmercifully condemned. In a private citi­

zen, our judgment seldom expects an accurate scrutiny

into his fortune and expense: and in a steward of the

public treasure, frugality is always a virtue, and the

increase of taxes too often an indispensable duty. In

the use of his patrimony, the generous temper of Ni­

cephorus had been proved; and the revenue was

strictly applied to the service of the state: each spring

the emperor marched in person against the Saracens;

and every Roman might compute the employment of

his taxes in triumphs, conquests, and the security of

the eastern barrier.

Among the warriors who promoted his ele-

vat'on, an(l served under his standard, a noble

Constan- and valiant Armenian had deserved and obtained

tine IX. i_ - i rm f

A.D. 969, the most eminent rewards. The stature of

Dec. 20. John Zimisces was below the ordinary standard;

but this diminutive body was endowed with strength,

beauty, and the soul of a hero. By the jealousy of the

