482 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of march had been prolonged above a thousand miles

from the rock of Gibraltar to the banks of the Loire; the

repetition of an equal space would have carried the Sa­

racens to the confines of Poland and the Highlands of

Scotland: the Rhine is not more impassible than the

Nile or Euphrates, and the Arabian fleet might have

sailed without a naval combat into the mouth of the

Thames. Perhaps the interpretation of the Koran would

now be taught in the schools of Oxford, and her pulpits

might demonstrate to a circumcised people the sanctity

and truth of the revelation of Mahomet."

Defeat of From such calamities was Christendom de-

cens by* Hvercd by the genius and fortune of one man.

Mart" Charles, the illegitimate son of the elder Pepin,

A.D.732. \vas content with the titles of mayor or duke of

the Franks, but he deserved to become the father of a

line of kings. In a laborious administration of twenty-

four years he restored and supported the dignity of the

throne, and the rebels of Germany and Gaul were suc­

cessively crushed by the activity of a warrior, who, in

the same campaign, could display his banner on the

Elbe, the Rhone, and the shores of the ocean. In the

public danger, he was summoned by the voice of his

country; and his rival, the duke of Aquitain, was re­

duced to appear among the fugitives and suppliants.

"Alas ! (exclaimed the Franks) what a misfortune ! what

an indignity! We have long heard of the name and con­

quests of the Arabs: we were apprehensive of their at­

tack from the east; they have now conquered Spain,

and invade our country, on the side of the west. Yet

their numbers, and (since they have no buckler) their

them no more than the intention. Ad domum beatissimi Martini evertandam de-

stinant. At Carolus, &c. The French annalist was more jealous of the honour of

the saint .

t Yet I sincerely doubt whether the Oxford mosch would have produced a vo­

lume of controversy so elegant and ingenious as the sermons lately preached by

Mr. White, the Arabic professor, at Mr. Bampton's lecture. His observations on

the character and religion of Mahomet are always adapted to his argument, and

generally founded in truth and reason. He sustains the part of a lively and
elo­

quent advocate, and sometimes rises to the merit of an historian and
philosopher.

