208 ROMAN EMPIRE.

their great deliverer. At the aspect of the holy crosses,

and ensigns of the saints, he dismounted from his horse,

led the procession of his nobles to the Vatican, and, as

he ascended the stairs, devoutly kissed each step of the

threshold of the apostles. In the portico, Hadrian ex­

pected him at the head of his clergy: they embraced, as

friends and equals; but in their march to the altar, the

king or patrician assumed the right hand of the pope.

Nor was the Frank content with these vain and empty

demonstrations of respect. In the twenty-six years that

elapsed, between the conquest of Lombardy and his

imperial coronation, Rome, which had been delivered

by the sword, was subject, as his own, to the sceptre of

Charlemagne. The people swore allegiance to his per­

son and family: in his name money was coined, and

justice was administered; and the election of the popes

was examined and confirmed by his authority. Except

an original and self-inherent claim of sovereignty, there

was not any prerogative remaining, which the title of

emperor could add to the patrician of Rome.p

Donations The gratitude of the Carlovingians was ade-

1uate to tnese obligations, and their names are

to consecrated as the saviours and benefactors of

e popes. ^e Roman church. Her ancient patrimony of

farms and houses was transformed by their bounty into

the temporal dominion of cities and provinces; and the

donation of the exarchate was the first fruits of the con­

quest of Pepin.q Astolphus with a sigh relinquished

his prey; the keys and the hostages of the principal

cities were delivered to the French ambassador; and,

in his master's name, he presented them before the

P Paul us Diaconus, who wrote before the empire of Charlemagne, describes Rome

as his subject city — vestras civitates (ad Pompeium Festum), suis addidit
sceptris

(de Metensis Ecclesiae Episcopis.) Some Carlovingian medals struck at Rome,
have

engaged Le Blanc to write an elaborate, though partial, dissertation on their
autho­

rity at Rome, both as patricians and emperors. (Amsterdam, 1692, in quarto.)

1 Mosheim (Institution Hist. Eccles. p. 263.) weighs this donation with fair
and

deliberate prudence. The original act has never been produced; but the Liber

Pontificalia represents, (p. 171.) and the Codei Carolinus supposes, this
ample

gift. Both are contemporary records; and the latter is more authentic, since
it ha*

been preserved, not in the Papal, but the Imperial, library.

