.r)lO ROMAN EMPIRE.

and clothed on the same day with the son of the Fati-

mite caliph. The Arabian squadrons issued from the

harbours of Palermo, Biserta, and Tunis; a hundred and

fifty towns of Calabria and Campania were attacked and

pillaged; nor could the suburbs of Rome be defended

by the name of the Caesars and apostles. Had the Ma­

hometans been united, Italy must have fallen an easy

and glorious accession to the empire of the prophet. But

the caliphs of Bagdad had lost their authority in the

west; the Aglabites and Fatimites usurped the pro­

vinces of Africa; their emirs of Sicily aspired to inde­

pendence; and the design of conquest and dominion

was degraded to a repetition of predatory inroads.*1

invasion of 'n ^e sufferings of prostrate Italy, the name of

Rome by Rome awakens a solemn and mournful reflec-

cens, tion. A fleet of Saracens from the African coast

presumed to enter the mouth of the Tyber, and to

approach a city which even yet, in her fallen state, was

revered as the metropolis of the Christian world. The

gates and ramparts were guarded by a trembling people;

but the tombs and temples of St. Peter and St. Paul were

left exposed in the suburbs of the Vatican and of the

Ostian way. Their invisible sanctity had protected them

against the Goths, the Vandals, and the Lombards; but

the Arabs disdained both the gospel and the legend;

and their rapacious spirit was approved and animated by

the precepts of the Koran. The Christian idols were

stripped of their costly offerings; a silver altar was torn

away from the shrine of St. Peter; and if the bodies or

the buildings were left entire, their deliverance must be

imputed to the haste, rather than the scruples, of the Sa­

racens. In their course along the Appian way, they pil­

laged Fundi and besieged Gayeta ; but they had turned

aside from the walls of Rome, and, by their divisions, the

i The extracts from the Arabic histories of Sicily are giren in Abulfeda,
(Annal.

Moslem, p. 271—273.) and in the first volume of Muratori's Scriptores Kenan
It»-

ficarnrn. M. de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 363, 364.) has added some

important facts.

