CHAP. LI. 405

along the sea-shore, till their banners were joined under

the walls of the Phoenician cities: Tripoli and Tyre were

End of Strayed; and a fleet of fifty transports, which

the Sy- entered without distrust the captive harbours,

brought a seasonable supply of arms and provi­

sions to the camp of the Saracens. Their labours were

terminated by the unexpected surrender of Caesarea: the

Roman prince had embarked in the night ;u and the de­

fenceless citizens solicited their pardon with an offering

of two hundred thousand pieces of gold. The remainder

of the province, Ramlah, Ptolemais or Achre, Sichem

or Neapolis, Gaza, Ascalon, Berytus, Sidon, Gabala,

Laodicea, Apamea, Hierapolis, no longer presumed to

dispute the will of the conqueror; and Syria bowed

under the sceptre of the caliphs seven hundred years

after Pompey had despoiled the last of the Macedonian

kings. *

The con- "^6 sieges and battles of six campaigns had

queron of consumed many thousands of the Moslems.

A.D. They died with the reputation and cheerfulness

ess—639. Qf martvrs . and the simplicity of their faith may

be expressed in the words of an Arabian youth, when he

embraced, for the last time, his sister and mother. It

is not (said he) the delicacies of Syria, or the fading de­

lights of this world, that has prompted me to devote my

life in the cause of religion. But I seek the favour of

God and his apostle; and I have heard, from one of the

companions of the prophet, that the spirits of the martyrs

will be lodged in the crops of green birds, who shall taste

the fruits, and drink of the rivers of paradise. Fare­

* In tbe loose and obscure chronology of the times, lam guided by an authentic  
record (in the book of ceremonies of Constantino Porphyrogenitus) which
certifies

that June 4, A.D. 638, the emperor crowned his younger son Heraclins in the

presence of his eldest Constantine, and in the palace of Constantinople; that
Ja­

nuary 1, A. D. 639. the royal procession visited the great church, and on
thefourth

of the same month the hippodrome.

« Sirty-flve years before Christ, Syria Pontusque monumenta sunt Cn. Pompeii

vinutij, (Veil. Patercul. 2. 38.) rather of his fortune and power: he adjudged

Syria to be a Roman province, and the last of the Seleucides were incapable of

drawing a sword in the defence of their patrimony. (See the original text*
collected

by Usher, Annal. p. 420.)

