CHAP. LI. 443

The first Before Musa would trust an army of the faith-

descent of ful to the traitors and infidels of a foreign land,

A.eD.rr 10. he made a less dangerous trial of their strength and

July' veracity. One hundred Arabs, and four hundred

Africans, passed over, in four vessels, from Tangier, or

Ceuta; the place of their descent on the opposite shore of

the strait, is marked by the name of Tarif their chief;

and the date of this memorable event"1 is fixed to the month

of Ramadan, of the ninety-first year of the Hegira, to

the month of July, seven hundred and forty-eight years

from the Spanish era, of Caesar,1 seven hundred and ten

after the birth of Christ. From their first station, they

marched eighteen miles through a hilly country to the

castle and town of Julian ;m on which (it is still called

Algezire) they bestowed the name of the Green Island,

from a verdant cape that advances into the sea. Their

hospitable entertainment, the Christians who joined their

standard, their inroad into a fertile and unguarded pro­

vince, the richness of their spoil and the safety of their

return, announced to their brethren the most favourable

omens of victory. In the ensuing spring, five thousand

veterans and volunteers were embarked under the com­

mand of Tarik, a dauntless and skilful soldier, who sur­

passed the expectation of his chief; and the necessary

transports were provided by the industry of their too

k A mistake of Roderic of Toledo, in comparing the lunar years of the Hegira

with the Julian years of the era, has determined Baronius, Mariana, and the

crowd of Spanish historians, to place the first invasion in the year 713, and
the

battle of Xeres in November 714. This anachronism of three years has been de­

tected by the more correct industry of modern chronologists, above all, of
Pagi,

(Critica, torn. 3. p. 169. 171—174.) who have restored the genuine state of
the

revolution. At the present time an Arabian scholar like Cardonne, who adopts

the ancient error, (torn. 1. p. 75.) is inexcusably ignorant or careless.

I The era of Ca:sar, which in Spain was in legal and popular use till the
four­

teenth century, begins thirty-eight years before the birth of Christ. I would
refer

the origin to the general peace by sea and land, which confirmed the power ami

partition of the triumvirs. (Dion Cassius, lib. 41!. p. 547. 553. Appian. de
Bell.

Civil, lib. 5. p. 1034. edit, fol.) Spain was a province of Osar Octavian ;
and

Tarragona, which raised the first temple to Augustus, (Tacit. Annal. 1.78.)
might

borrow from the orientals this mode of flattery.

m The road, the country, the old castle of count Julian, and the superstitious
be­

lief of the Spaniards of hidden treasures, &c. are described byPere Labat
(Voyages

en Espagne et en Italie, torn. 1. p. 207—217.) with his usual pleasantry.

