266 ROMAN EMPIRE.

preferred to the simple, though important, office of com­

posing disputes by their advice, and guiding valour by

their example. Even a female of sense and spirit has

been permitted to command the countrymen of Zenobia.b

The momentary junction of several tribes produces an

army; their more lasting union constitutes a nation;

and the supreme chief, the emir of emirs, whose ban­

ner is displayed at their head, may deserve, in the eyes

of strangers, the honours of the kingly name. If the

Arabian princes abuse their power, they are quickly

punished by the desertion of their subjects, who had

been accustomed to a mild and parental jurisdiction.

Their spirit is free, their steps are unconfined, the desert

is open, and the tribes and families are held together

by a mutual and voluntary compact. The softer natives

of Yemen supported the pomp and majesty of a mo­

narch; but if he could not leave his palace without

endangering his life,1 the active powers of government

must have been devolved on his nobles and magistrates.

The cities of Mecca and Medina present, in the heart

of Asia, the form, or rather the substance, of a common­

wealth. The grandfather of Mahomet, and his lineal

ancestors, appear in foreign and domestic transactions as

the princes of their country; but they reigned, like Pe­

ricles at Athens, or the Medici at Florence, by the opi­

nion of their wisdom and integrity; their influence was

divided with their patrimony; and the sceptre was trans­

ferred from the uncles of the prophet to a younger branch

of the tribe of Koreish. On solemn occasions they con­

vened the assembly of the people; and since mankind

must be either compelled or persuaded to obey, the use

and reputation of oratory among the ancient Arabs is the

h Saraceni .... mulieres auint in eos regnare. (Expositio totius Mundi, p. 3.

in Hudson, torn. 3.) The reign of Mavia is famous in ecclesiastical story.
Focock,

Specimen, p. 693 83.

1 Mn fgnui ex rm (WiXtiOT, is the report of Agatharades, (de Man Bubro, p. 63,

64. in Hudson, torn. l.)DiodorusSiculus, (torn. 1. lib. 3. c. 47. p. 215.) and
Strabo.

(lib. 16. p. 1124.) But 1 much suspect that this is one of the popular tales,
or ex­

traordinary accidents, which the credulity of travellers so often transforms
into a

fact, a custom, and a law.

