CHAP. LI. 449

both in words and actions, that the victory of the

Arabs had not impaired his attachment to their cause.

Some enemies yet remained for the sword of Musa.

The tardy repentance of the Goths had compared

their own numbers and those of the invaders; the

cities from which the march of Tarik had declined, con­

sidered themselves as impregnable; and the bravest pa­

triots defended the fortifications of Seville and Merida.

They were successively besieged and reduced by the la­

bour of Musa, who transported his camp from the Boetis

to the Anas, from the Guadalquiver to the Guadiana.

When he beheld the works of Roman magnificence, the

bridge, the aqueducts, the triumphal arches, and the

theatre, of the ancient metropolis of Lusitania, " I should

imagine (said he to his four companions) that the human

race must have united their art and power in the foun­

dation of this city; happy is the man who shall become

its master!" He aspired to that happiness, but the Eme-

ritans sustained on this occasion the honour of their de­

scent from the veteran legionaries of Augustus.7 Dis­

daining the confinement of their walls, they gave battle

to the Arabs on the plain; but an ambuscade rising from

the shelter of a quarry, or a ruin, chastised their indis­

cretion, and intercepted their return. The wooden tur­

rets of assault were rolled forwards to the foot of the

rampart; but the defence of Merida was obstinate and

long; and the castle of the martyrs was a perpetual tes­

timony of the losses of the Moslems. The constancy of

the besieged was at length subdued by famine and de­

spair; and the prudent victor disguised his impatience

under the names of clemency and jesteem. The alterna­

tive of exile or tribute was allowed; the churches were

divided between the two religions; and the wealth of

7 The honourable relics of the Cantabrian war (Dion Cassias, lib. 53. p. 720.)

were planted in this metropolis of Lusitania, perhaps of Spain. (Submittit cui
tota

euos Hispania fasces.) Nonius (Hispania, c. 31. p. 106—110.) enumerates the

ancient structures, but concludes with a sigh,—Urbs hsc olim nobilissima ad
mug.

nam incolarum infrequentiam delapsa est, et prater priscie claritatis minus
nihil

ostendit.

VOL. VI, 2 C

