CHAP. XLIX. 201

jects obeyed the exhortations of Gregory himself, in se­

parating the personal guilt of Leo from the general

cause of the Roman empire.c The Greeks were less

mindful of the service, than the Lombards of the injury:

the two nations, hostile in their faith, were reconciled in

a dangerous and unnatural alliance; the king and the

exarch marched to the conquest of Spoleto and Rome:

the storm evaporated without effect, but the policy of

Liutprand alarmed Italy with a vexatious alternative of

hostility and truce. His successor Astolphus declared

himself the equal enemy of the emperor and the pope;

Ravenna was subdued by force or treachery/ and this

final conquest extinguished the series of the exarchs,

who had reigned with the subordinate power since the

time of Justinian and the ruin fff the Gothic kingdom.

Rome was summoned to acknowledge the victorious

Lombard as her lawful sovereign: the annual tribute of

a piece of gold was fixed as the ransom of each citizen,

and the sword of destruction was unsheathed to exact

the penalty of her disobedience. The Romans hesitated;

they entreated; they complained; and the threatening

barbarians were checked by arms and negotiations, till

the popes had engaged the friendship of an ally and

avenger beyond the Alps."

Her deli- IQ his distress, the first Gregory had implored

byTepln. the aid of tae nero of the aee» of Charles Mar-

A.D.751. tel, who governed the French monarchy with

the humble title of mayor or duke; and who, by his

signal victory over the Saracens, had saved his coun­

c The Venetian historians, John Sagorninus, (Chron. Venet. p. 13.) and the

doge Andrew Dandolo, (Scriptores Rer. Ital. torn. 12. p. 135.) have preserved

thin epistle of Gregory. The loss and recovery of Ravenna are mentioned by

Panlus Diaconus; (de Gest. Langobard. lib. 6. c. 49. 5+. in Script. Ital.
torn. 1.

pan 1. p. 506. 508.) but our chronologists, Pagi, Muratori, &c. cannot
ascertain

the date or circumstances.

d The option will depend on the various readings of the MSS. of Anastasius—

decepcrat, or decerjnerat, (Script. Ital. torn. 3. pare 1. p. 167.)

• The Codex Carolinus is a collection of the epistles of the popes to Charles

Martel (whom they style Subregulus), Pepin, and Charlemagne, as far as the
year

791, when it was formed by the last of these princes. His original and
authentic

MS. (Bibliothecae Cubicularis) is now in the imperial library of Vienna, and
has

.been published by Lambecius and Muratori. (Script. Hcrurn Ital. torn .3. pars
2.

P.75.&C.)

