CHAP. XL1X.

in their opinion, the Lord of Hosts pronounced a deci­

sive judgment between the adoration and contempt of

these mute and inanimate idols. For awhile Edessa had

braved the Persian assaults: but the chosen city, the

spouse of Christ, was involved in the common ruin;

and his divine resemblance became the slave and trophy

of the infidels. After a servitude of three hundred years,

the Palladium was yielded to the devotion of Constan­

tinople, for a ransom of twelve thousand pounds of silver,

the redemption of two hundred Mussulmans, and a per-

petual truce for the territory of Edessa.'1 In this season

of distress and dismay, the eloquence of the monks was

exercised in the defence of images; and they attempted

to prove, that the sin and schism of the greatest part of

the Orientals had forfeited the favour, and annihilated

the virtue, of these precious symbols. But they were

now opposed by the murmurs of many simple or rational

Christians, who appealed to the evidence of texts, of facts,

and of the primitive times, and secretly desired the re­

formation of the church. As the worship of images had

never been established by any general or positive law, its

progress in the eastern empire had been retarded, or ac­

celerated, by the differences of men and manners, the

local degrees of refinement, and the personal characters

of the bishops. The splendid devotion was fondly che­

rished by the levity of the capital, and the inventive ge­

nius of the Byzantine clergy, while the rude and remote

districts of Asia were strangers to this innovation of sa­

cred luxury. Many large congregations of Gnostics and

Arians maintained, after their conversion, the simple

worship which had preceded their separation; and the

Armenians, the most warlike subjects of Rome, were not

reconciled, in the twelfth century, to the sight of images/

i See EJmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 267.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 201.) and

Abulfeda. (Annul. Moslem, p. 264.) and the Criticisms of Pagi. (torn 3. A. IX
944.)

The prudent Franciscan refuses to determine whether the image of Edessa now
re­

poses at Rome or Genoa; but its repose is inglorious, and this ancient object
of

worship is no longer famous or fashionable.

'Af/*fn»i; xat AX0/4ayMf tvurnt; v iyian uxovwv TtfWHumfis (urnyo^uTBi.
(Nicetas,

