380 ROMAN EMPIRE.

their religion, were indignantly hurled into the midst of

the city. The event of some general and partial actions

reduced the Damascenes to a closer defence: but a mes­

senger whom they dropped from the walls, returned with

the promise of speedy and powerful succour, and their

tumultuous joy conveyed the intelligence to the camp

of the Arabs. After some debate, it was resolved by the

generals to raise, or rather to suspend, the siege of Da­

mascus, till they had given battle to the "orces of the em­

peror. In the retreat, Caled would have chosen the

more perilous station of the rear-guard; he modestly

yielded to the wishes of Abu Obeidah. But in the hour

of danger he flew to the rescue of his companion, who

was rudely pressed by a sally of six thousand horse and

ten thousand foot, and few among the Christians could

relate at Damascus the circumstances of their defeat.

The importance of the contest required the junction of

the Saracens who were dispersed on the frontiers of Syria

and Palestine; and I shall transcribe one of the circular

mandates which was addressed to Amrou the future con­

queror of Egypt. In the name of the most merciful God:

from Caled to Amrou, health and happiness. Know that

thy brethren the Moslems design to march to Aizna-

din, where there is an army of seventy thousand Greeks,

who propose to come against us, that they may extinguish

the light of God with their mouths; but God preserveth

his light in spite of the infidels.k As soon, therefore,

as this letter of mine shall be delivered to thy hands, come

with those that are with thee to Aiznadin, where thou

shall find us, if it please the most high God. The sum­

mons was cheerfully obeyed, and the forty-five thousand

Moslems who met on the same day, on the same spot, as­

cribed to the blessing of Providence the effects of their

activity and zeal.

k These words are a text of the Koran, c. 9. 32. 61.8. Like our fanatics of
the

last century, the Moslems, on every familiar or important occasion, spoke the

language of their scriptures; a style more natural in their mouths, than the
Hebrew

idiom transplanted into the climate and dialect of Britain.

