470 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the house of Ommiyahs was reduced to the kingdoms of

Syria and Egypt: their distress and fear enforced their

compliance with the pressing demands of the Christians;

and the tribute was increased to a slave, a horse, and a

thousand pieces of gold, for each of the three hundred

and sixty-five days of the solar year. But as soon as the

empire was again united by the arms and policy of

Abdalmalek, he disclaimed a badge of servitude not less

injurious to his conscience than to his pride; he discon­

tinued the payment of the tribute; and the resentment

of the Greeks was disabled from action by the mad

tyranny of the second Justinian, the just rebellion of his

subjects, and the frequent change of his antagonists and

successors. Till the reign of Abdalmalek, the Saracens

had been content with the free possession of the Persian

and Roman treasures, in the coin of Chosroes and

Caesar. By the command of that caliph, a national

mint was established, both of silver and gold, and the

inscription of the dinar, though it might be censured by

some timorous casuists, proclaimed the unity of the God

of Mahomet.'1 Under the reign of the caliph Waled,

the Greek language and characters were excluded from

the accounts of the public revenue.1 If this change was

.... irattina, xaxa, isiite&vi n Tufjuntia ixo vm Afaffvr f**Xft TOU M».
(Chro­

nograph. p. 302, 303.) The series of these events may be traced in the AnnaU
of

Theophanes, and in the Abridgment of the Patriarch Nicephorus, p. 24 — 24.

• These domestic revolutions are related in a clear and natural style, in the

second volume of < irklr v V History of the Saracens, p. 253 — 370. Besides om

printed authors, he draws his materials from the Arabic MSS. of Oxford, which
he

would have more deeply searched, had he been confined to the Bodleian library
in­

stead of the city jail; a fate how unworthy of the man and of his country!

11 Elmacin, who dates the first coinage A. H. 76, A. D. 695, five or six yean

later than the Greek historians, has compared the weight of the best or common

gold dinar, to the dracham or dirhem of Egypt, (p. 77.) which may be equal to

two pennies (forty-eight grains) of our Troy weight, (Hooper's Enquiry into
An­

cient Measures, p. 2-1 — 36.) and equivalent to eight shillings of our
sterling money.

From the same Elmacin and the Arabian physicians, some dinars as high as two

dirhems, as low as half a dirhem, may be deduced. The piece of silver was the

dirhem, both in value and weight; but an old, though fair coin, struck at
VVasset,

A. H. 88, and preserved in the Bodleian library, wants four grains of the
Cairo

standard. (See the Modern Univ. Hist. torn. 1. p. 548. of the French
translation.)

* Kai I

aura

ta, n -.-, I,- Sj , 1; o»™ ,:/ti-'': i Tpia y.e^i:0m. Theophan. Chronograph,
p. 314. Thw

defect, if it really existed, must have stimulated the ingenuity of the Arabs
to in-

v.cnt or boriow.

