CHAP. LI. 397

own hands, and administered the comfortable reflection,

that the infidels partook of their sufferings without par­

taking of their reward. Four thousand and thirty of the

Moslems were buried in the field of battle; and the skill

of the Armenian archers enabled seven hundred to boast

that they had lost an eye in that meritorious service.

The veterans of the Syrian war acknowledged that it was

the hardest and most doubtful of the days which they

had seen. But it was likewise the most decisive: many

thousand of the Greeks and Syrians fell by the swords

of the Arabs; many were slaughtered, after the defeat,

in the woods and mountains; many, by mistaking the

ford, were drowned in the waters of the Yermuk; and

however the loss may be magnified,8 the Christian writers

confess and bewail the bloody punishment of their sins.h

Manuel, the Roman general, was either killed at Da­

mascus, or took refuge in the monastery of mount Sinai.

, An exile in the Byzantine court, Jabalah lamented the

manners of Arabia, and his unlucky preference of the

Christian cause.' He had once inclined to the profes­

sion of Islam; but in the pilgrimage of Mecca, Jabalah

was provoked to strike one of his brethren, and fled

with amazement from the stern and equal justice of

the caliph. The victorious Saracens enjoyed at Damas­

cus a month of pleasure and repose: the spoil was

divided by the discretion of Abu Obeidah: an equal

f We killed of them, says Abu Obeidah to the caliph, one hundred and fifty
thou­

sand, and made prisoners forty thousand. (Ockley, vol. 1. p. 241.) As I cannot

doubt his veracity, nor believe bis computation, I must suspect that the
Arabic his­

torians indulged themselves in the practice of composing speeches and letters
for

their heroes.

"After deploring the sins of the Christians, Theophanes adds, (Chronograph, p.

376.) anrn S i;i/uiae; A/4n\nx TOTTTOT .'•,•«: TOT >••"-» TOW Xfwrou, iut
yofrii s wftirci foga

vrawtf TOU pvft&uisv ftyvnv n xara TO ra/3tOay Xiy» (does he mean Aiznadin ?)
-xai

Ifp/^suxa?, KAI my aQiff&fft cufta'ro%itft&i. His account is brief and
obscure, but he ac-

cuses the numbers of the enemy, the adverse wind, and the cloud of dust: ft*,
ivn-

fliml; (the Romans) arrtirfMumftu »x"f »C *'» TO» MvupTtv, vrrtmtu, xai
taurou; 8t\-

Xom; IK -rit-; rrmiaui; TOU liffa^Btu irirraftm out amiXero aftnr.
(Chronograph, p.

280.

'See Abulfeda, (Annal. Moslem, p. 70, 71.) who transcribes the poetical com­

plaint of Jabalah himself, and some panegyrical strains of an Arabian poet, to

whom the chief of Gossan sent from Constantinople a gift of five hundred
pieces of

gold by the hands of the ambassadors of Omar.

