3o6 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of Mecca, or had received the fugitive in the walls of

Medina. The increasing myriads, who acknowledged

Mahomet as their king and prophet, had been compelled

by his arms, or allured by his prosperity. The Poly-

theists were confounded by the simple idea of a solitary

and invisible God: the pride of the Christians and Jews

disdained the yoke of a mortal and contemporary legis­

lator. Their habits of faith and obedience were not suf­

ficiently confirmed; and many of the new converts re­

gretted the venerable antiquity of the law of Moses, or

the rites and mysteries of the Catholic church, or the

idols, the sacrifices, the joyous festivals, of their Pagan

ancestors. The jarring interests and hereditary feuds of

the Arabian tribes had not yet coalesced in a system of

union and subordination; and the barbarians were im­

patient of the mildest and most salutary laws that curbed

their passions, or violated their customs. They sub­

mitted with reluctance to the religious precepts of the

Koran, the abstinence from wine, the fast of the Rama­

dan, and the daily repetition of five prayers; and the

alms and tithes, which were collected for the treasury of

Medina, could be distinguished only by a name from the

payment of a perpetual and ignominious tribute. The

example of Mahomet had excited a spirit of fanaticism or

imposture, and several of his rivals presumed to imitate

the conduct, and defy the authority,-ofj;he living prophet.

At the head of thefugitives and auxiliaries, the first caliph

was reduced to the cities of Mecca, Medina, and Tayef;

and perhaps the Koreish would have restored the idols

of the Caaba, if their levity had not been checked by a

seasonable reproof. Ye men of 'Mecca, will ye be the last to

embrace, and the first to abandon, the religion of Islam?

After exhorting the Moslems to confide in the aid of God

and his apostle, Abubeker resolved, by a vigorous attack,

to prevent the junction of the rebels. The women and

children were safely lodged in the cavities of the moun­

tains: the warriors marching under eleven banners, dif­

