626 ROMAN EMPIRE.

vinces of Syria and Egypt were twice dismembered by

The Tou- their Turkish slaves, of the race of Toulon and

Ikshidf These barbarians, in religion and man-

lif05'ners tne countrymen of Mahomet, emerged from

shidues, the bloody factions of the palace to a provincial

934^-968. command and an independent throne: their

names became famous and formidable in their time; but

the founders of these two potent dynasties confessed,

either in words or actions the vanity of ambition. The

first on his death-bed implored the mercy of God to a

sinner, ignorant of the limits of his own power: the se­

cond, in the midst of four hundred thousand soldiers and

eight thousand slaves, concealed from every human eye

the chamber where he attempted to sleep. Their sons

•were educated in the vices of kings; and both Egypt

and Syria were recovered and possessed by the Abbas-

sides during an interval of thirty years. In the decline

of their empire, Mesopotamia, with the important cities

of Mosul and Aleppo, was occupied by the Arabian

The Hama- princes of the tribe of Hamadan. The poets of

AJcTsga tnQrr court could repeat, wrthout a blush, that

—looi. nature had formed their countenances for beauty,

their tongues for eloquence, and their hands for libera­

lity and valour: but' the genuine tale of the elevation

and reign of the Hamadanites exibits a scene of trea­

chery, murder, and parricide. At the same fatal period

the Persian kingdom was again usurped by the dynasty

The Bo- of the Bowides,by the sword of three brothers,

A! D! 923 who, under various names, were styled the sup-

—1005. p0rj. and columns Of the state, and who, from the

Caspian sea to the ocean, would suffer no tyrants but

themselves. Under their reign, the language and genius

of Persia revived, and the Arabs, three hundred and four

years after the death of Mahomet, were deprived of the

sceptre of the east.

MVI. de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn. .". p. 124—154.) has exhausted theTou-

lunidcs and Ikabidites of Egypt, and thrown some light on the Carmathiaos and

Hamadanites.

