CHAP. L, 337

exalted him above the rest of his countrymen,

rf Ah' might justify his claim to the vacant throne of

Arabia. The son of Abu Taleb was, in his own right,

the chief of the family of Hashem, and the hereditary

prince or guardian of the city and temple of Mecca. The

light of prophecy was extinct; but the husband of Fatima

might expect the inheritance and blessing of her father:

the Arabs had sometimes been patient of a female reign;

and the two grandsons of the prophet had often been

fondled in his lap, and shewn in his pulpit, as the hope

of his age, and the chief of the youth of paradise. The

first of the true believers might aspire to march before

them in this world and in the next; and if some were

of a graver and more rigid cast, the zeal and virtue of Al

i

were never out-stripped by any recent proselyte. He

united the qualifications of a poet, a soldier, and a saint:

his wisdom still breathes in a collection of moral and re足

ligious sayings ;f and every antagonist, in the combats of

the tongue or of the sword, was subdued by his elo

quence and valour. From the first hour of his mission

to the last rites of his funeral, the apostle was never for

saken by a generous friend, whom he delighted to name

his brother, his vicegerent, and the faithful Aaron of a

second Moses. The son of Abu Taleb was afterward re足

proached for neglecting to secure his interest by a solemn

declaration of his right, which would have silenced all

competition, and sealed his succession by the decrees of

heaven. But the unsuspecting hero confided in himself;

the jealousy of empire, and perhaps the fear of opposition,

might suspend the resolutions of Mahomet; and the bed

of sickness was besieged by the artful Ayesha, the

daughter of Abubeker, and the enemy of Ali.

'Ockley (at the end of his second volume) has riven an English version of one

hundred and siity-nine sentences, which he ascribes, with some hesitation, to

Ali. the son of Aba Taleb. His preface is coloured by the enthusiasm of a
trans足

lator; vet these sentences delineate a characteristic, though dark, picture of
hu足

man life.

VOL. VI . Z

