CHAP. L. 271

of grammar, of metre, and of rhetoric, were unknown

to the freeborn eloquence of the Arabians; but their

penetration was sharp, their fancy luxuriant, their wit

strong and sententious/ and their more elaborate com-

Love of positions were addressed with energy and effect

P0811?- to the minds of their hearers. The genius and

merit of a rising poet were celebrated by the applause

of his own and the kindred tribes. A solemn banquet

was prepared, and a chorus of women, striking their

tymbals, and displaying the pomp of their nuptials,

sung in the presence of their sons and husbands the

felicity of their native tribe; that a champion had now

appeared to vindicate their rights; that a herald had

raised his voice to immortalize their renown. The dis­

tant or hostile tribes resorted to an annual fair, which

was abolished by the fanaticism of the first Moslems;

a national assembly, that must have contributed to re­

fine and harmonize the barbarians. Thirty days were

employed in the exchange, not only of corn and wine,

but of eloquence and poetry. The prize was disputed

by the generous emulation of the bards; the victorious

performance was deposited in the archives of princes

and emirs, and we may read, in our own language, the

seven original poems which were inscribed in letters of

gold, and suspended in the temple of Mecca.* The

Arabian poets were the historians and moralists of the

age; and if they sympathized with the prejudices, they

inspired and crowned the virtues, of their countrymen.

The indissoluble'union of generosity and valour was

the darling theme of their song; and when they pointed

'A familiar tale in Voltaire's Zadig (le Chien et le Cheval) is related to
prove

tho natural sagacity of the Arabs, (d'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 120. 121.
Gag-

nier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 37—16.) but d'Arvieux, or rather La Roque,

(Voyage de Palestine, p. 92.) denies the boasted superiority of the Bedoweens.

The one hundred and sixty-nine sentences of Ali (translated by Ockley, London,

1718.) afford a just-and favourable specimen of Arabian wit.

• Pococt (Specimen, p. 158—161.) and Casira (Bibliot. Hispano-Arabica,

torn. 1. p. 48. 84, &c. 119. torn. 2. p. 17, &c.) speak of the Arabian poets
before

Mahomet: the seven poems of the Caaba have been published in English by sir

'William Jones; but his honourable mission to India has deprived us of his own

notes, far more interesting than the obscure and obsolete text.

