96 ROMAN EMPIRE.

dignation, the church was pillaged, the sanctuary was

polluted by a promiscuous crowd of Jews and barba­

rians; and the Monothelite Pyrrhus, a creature of the

empress, after dropping a protestation on the altar,

escaped by a prudent flight from the zeal of the Ca­

tholics. A more serious and bloody task was reserved

fort he senate, who derived a temporary strength from

the consent of the soldiers and people. The spirit of

Roman freedom revived the ancient and awful exam­

ples of the judgment of tyrants, and the imperial cul­

prits were deposed and condemned as the authors of the

Pnnish- death of Constantine. But the severity of the

mem of COnscript fathers was stained by the indiscrimi-

Martma r J

and Hera- nate punishment of the innocent and the guilty:

A?!?. 6*1, Martina and Heracleonas were sentenced to the

September'amputation, the former of her tongue,,the latter

of his nose; and after this cruel execution they con­

sumed the remainder of their days in exile and oblivion.

The Greeks who were capable of reflection might find

some consolation for their servitude, by observing the

abuse of power when it was lodged for a moment in

the hands of an aristocracy.

Constans We shall imagine ourselves transported five

I^A.D. hunclrecl years backwards to the age of the An-

SePtember-tonines, if we listen to the oration which Con­

stans II. pronounced in the twelfth year of his age

before the Byzantine senate. After returning his thanks

for the just punishment of the assassins who had inter­

cepted the fairest hopes of his father's reign,—By the

Divine Providence (said the young emperor), and by

your righteous decree, Martina and her incestuous pro­

geny have been cast headlong from the throne. Your

majesty and wisdom have prevented the Roman state from

degenerating into lawless tyranny. I therefore exhort

and beseech you to stand forth as the counsellors and

judges of the common safety. The senators were grati­

fied by the respectful address and liberal donative of

