CHAP. XLVIII. 117

the execution; she urged, that the anniversary of the

Saviour's birth would be profaned by this inhuman

spectacle, and Leo consented with reluctance to a de­

cent respite. But on the vigil of the feast, his sleep­

less anxiety prompted him to visit at the dead of night

the chamber in which his enemy was confined: he be­

held him released from his chain, and stretched on the

jailer's bed in a profound slumber. Leo was alarmed

at these signs of security and intelligence; but though

he retired with silent steps, his entrance and departure

were noticed by a slave who lay concealed in a corner

of the prison. Under the pretence of requesting the

spiritual aid of a confessor, Michael informed the con­

spirators, that their lives depended on his discretion,

and that a few hours were left to assure their own

safety, by the deliverance of their friend and country.

On the great festivals a chosen band of priests and

chanters was admitted into the palace by a private gate

to sing matins in the chapel; and Leo, who regulated

with the same strictness the discipline of the choir and

of the camp, was seldom absent from those early devo­

tions. In the ecclesiastical habit, but with swords un­

der their robes, the conspirators mingled with the pro­

cession, lurked in the angles of the chapel, and expected,

as the signal of murder, the intonation of the first psalm

by the emperor himself. The imperfect light, and the

uniformity of dress, might have favoured his escape,

while their assault was pointed against a harmless

priest; but they soon discovered their mistake, and en­

compassed on all sides the royal victim. Without a

weapon and without a friend, he grasped a weighty

cross, and stood at bay against the hunters of his life;

but as he asked for mercy,—This is the hour, not of

mercy, but of vengeance, was the inexorable reply. The

stroke of a well-aimed sword separated from his body

the right arm and the cross, and Leo the Armenian was

slain at the foot of the altar.

