CHAP. XLVII. 59

founders. In the most abject state of ignorance, poverty,

and servitude, the Nestorians and Monophysites reject

the spiritual supremacy of Rome, and cherish the tole­

ration of their Turkish masters, which allows them to

anathematize; on one hand, St. Cyril and the synod

of Ephesus; on the other, pope Leo and the council of

Chalcedon. The weight which they cast into the down-

fal of the eastern empire demands our notice; and the

reader may be amused with the various prospects of,

I. The Nestorians. II. The Jacobites." III. The Maro-

nite.s. IV. The Armenians. V. The Copts; and, VI.

The Abyssinians. To the three former, the Syriac is

common; but of the latter, each is discriminated by the

use of a national idiom. Yet the modern natives of

Armenia and Abyssinia would be incapableof conversing

with their ancestors; and the Christians of Egypt and

Syria, who reject the religion, have adopted the language,

of the Arabians. The lapse of time has seconded the

sacerdotal arts; and in the east, as well as in the west,

the Deity is addressed in an obsolete tongue, unknown

to the majority of the congregation.

I. Both in his native and his episcopal pro-

vince, the heresy of the unfortunate Nestorius

was speedily obliterated. The oriental bishops,

who at Ephesus had resisted to his face the arrogance

of Cyril, were mollified by his tardy concessions. The

same prelates, or their successors, subscribed, not with­

out a murmur, the decrees of Chalcedon: the power

of the Monophysites reconciled them with the Catho­

lics in the conformity of passion, of interest, and insen­

sibility of belief; and their last reluctant sigh was

breathed in the defence of the three chapters. Their

dissenting brethren, less moderate or more sincerej

"On the account of the Honophysites and Nestorians, I am deeply indebted to

the Bibliotheca OrientaUs Clementine- Vaticana of Joseph Simon Assemannus.

That learned Maronite was dispatched in the year 1715, by pope Clement XI. to

»isit the monasteries of Egypt and Syiia in search of MSS. His four folio
volumes

published at Ronvs in 1719—1728, contain a part only, though perhaps the most

valoabla, of his extensive project. As a nativ« and as a scholar he possessed
the

Syriac literature; and, though a dependant of Rome, he wished to be moderate

and candid.

