480 ROMAN EMPIRE.

race, the pious Omar, was dissatisfied with his own title:

their personal virtues were insufficient to justify a de­

parture from the order of succession; and the eyes and

wishes of the faithful were turned towards the line of

Hashem and the kindred of the apostle of God. Of these

the Fatimites were either rash or pusillanimous; but the

descendants of Abbas cherished, with courage and dis­

cretion, the hopes of their rising fortunes. From an ob­

scure residence in Syria, they secretly dispatched their

agents and missionaries, who preached in the eastern

provinces their hereditary indefeasible right; and Mo­

hammed, the son of Ali, the son of Abdallah, the son of

Abbas, the uncle of the prophet, gave audience to the

deputies of Chorasan, and accepted their free gift of four

hundred thousand pieces of gold. After the death of

Mohammed, the oath of allegiance was administered in

the name of his son Ibrahim to a numerous band of vo­

taries, who expected only a signal and a leader; and the

governor of Chorasan continued to deplore his fruitless

admonitions and the deadly slumber of the caliphs of

Damascus, till he himself, with all his adherents, was

driven from the city and palace of Meru, by the rebel­

lious arms of Abu Moslem."1 Thatmaker of kings, the

author, as he is named, of the call of the Abbassides,

was at length rewarded for his presumption of merit with

the usual gratitude of courts. A mean, perhaps a fo­

reign, extraction, could not repress the aspiring energy

of Abu Moslem. Jealous of his wives, liberal of his

wealth, prodigal of his own blood and of that of others,

he could boast with pleasure, and possibly with truth,

that he had destroyed six hundred thousand of his ene­

mies; and such was the intrepid gravity of his mind and

countenance, that he was never seen to smile except on

10 The steed and the saddle, which had carried any of his wives, were
instantly

killed or burnt, lest they should be afterward mounted by a male. Twelve
hundred

mules or camels were required for his kitchen furniture; and the daily
consump­

tion amounted to three thousand cakes, a hundred sheep, besides oxen, poultry,

&c. (Abulpharagius, Hist. Dynast, p. 140.)

