CHAP. XLIX. 227

with the additions of the Netherlands and Spain,

as far as the Rhine. II. The Saracens had been

expelled from France by the grandfather and father of

Charlemagne; but they still possessed the greatest part

of SPAIN, from the rock of Gibraltar to the Pyrenees.

Amidst their civil divisions, an Arabian emir of Sara-

gossa implored his protection in the diet of Paderborn.

Charlemagne undertook the expedition, restored the

emir, and, without distinction of faith, impartially

crushed the resistance of the Christians, and rewarded

the obedience and service of the Mahometans. In his

absence he instituted the Spanish march,'* which ex­

tended from the Pyrenees to the river Ebro: Barcelona

was the residence of the French governor: he possessed

the counties of Rousillon and Catalonia; and the infant

kingdoms of Navarre and Arragon were subject

to his jurisdiction. III. As king of the Lom­

bards, and patrician of Rome, he reigned over the

greatest part of ITALY,' a tract of a thousand miles

from the Alps to the borders of Calabria. The dutchy

of Beneventum, a Lombard fief, had spread, at the ex­

pense of the Greeks, over the modern kingdom of Na­

ples. But Arrechis, the reigning duke, refused to be

included in the slavery of his country; assumed the in­

dependent title of prince; and opposed his sword to

the Carlovingian monarchy. His defence was firm,

his submission was not inglorious, and the emperor

was content with an easy tribute, the demolition of his

fortresses, and the acknowledgment, on his coins, of a

supreme lord. The artful flattery of his son Grimoald,

added the appellation of father, but he asserted his

dignity with prudence, and Beneventum insensibly

i The governors or counts of the Spanish march revolted from Charles die

Simple about the year 900; and a poor pittance, the Rousillon has been
recover­

ed in 1642 by the kings of France. (Longuerue, Description de la France, torn.

1. p. 280—222.) Yet the Rousillon contains oue hundred and eighty-eight thou­

sand nine hundred subjects, and annually pays two millions six bundled
thousand

lines; (Necker, Administration dies Finances, torn. 1. p. STB, 279.) more
people

perhaps, and doubtless more money, than the march of Charlemagne.

'Schmidt, Hist, des Atlemands, tern. 2. p. 300, &c.

Q2

