CHAP. XLVII. Ba

successor of An astasius, replanted the orthodox standard

in the east; Severus fled into Egypt: and his friend, the

eloquent Xenaias,01 who had escaped from the Nestorians

of Persia, was suffocated in his exile by the Melchites

of Paphlagonia. Fifty-four bishops were swept from

their thrones, eight hundred ecclesiastics were cast into

prison," and, notwithstanding the ambiguous favour of

Theodora, the oriental flocks, deprived oftheirshepherds,

must insensibly have been either famished or poisoned.

In this spiritual distress, the expiring faction was revived,

and united, and perpetuated, by the labours of a monk;

and the name of James Baradaeus" has been preserved

in the appellation of Jacobites; a familiar sound, which

may startle the ear of an English reader. From the

holy confessors in their prison of Constantinople, he

received the powers of bishop of Edessa and apostle of

the east, and the ordination of fourscore thousand bi*

shops, priests, and deacons, is derived from the same

inexhaustible source. The speed of the zealous mission­

ary was promoted by the fleetest dromedaries of a de­

vout chief of the Arabs; the doctrine and discipline of

the Jacobites were secretly established in the dominions

of Justinian; and each Jacobite was compelled to vio­

late the laws and to hate the Roman legislator. The.

successors of Severus, while they lurked in convents or

villages, while they sheltered their proscribed heads in

the caverns of hermits, or the tents of the Saracens, still

"Assemanni, (BiWiot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 10—46.) and La Croze, (Christianisme

d'Ethaope, p. 36—40.) will supply the history of Xenaias or Philn vcnus,
bishop of

Mabog, or Hierapolis, in Syria. He was a perfect master of the Syriac
language,

and the author or editor of a version of the New Testament.

• The names and titles of fifty-four bishops, who were exiled by Justin, are
pre-

urved in the Chronicle of Dionysius. (apud Asseman. torn. 2. p. 34.) Severus
was

personally summoned to Constantinople—for bis trial, says Liberatus, (Brer, c,

19.)—that his tongue might be cut out, says Evagrius (lib. 4. c. 4.) The
prudent

patriarch did not stay to examine the difference. This ecclesiastical
revolution is

fixed by Pagi in the month of September of the year 518. (Critica, torn. i!.
p. 506.)

0 The obscure history of James, or Jacobus Baradaus, or Zanzalus, nay be ga­

thered from Entycbius, (Annal. torn. 2. p. 144.147.) Renaudot, (Hist.
Patriarch,

Alex, p. 153.) and A ssemannus, (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 1. p. 424. torn. 2. p.
62—69.

344—334. p. 414. torn. 3. p. 385—388.) He seemsto be unknown to the Greeks.

The Jacobites themselves had rather deduce their name and pedigree from St.

JttBeo the apostle.

