CHAP. XLIX. 177

but the public religion of the Catholics was uniformly

simple and spiritual; and the first notice of the use of

pictures is in the censure of the council of Illiberis, three

hundred years after the Christian era. Under the suc­

cessors of Constantine, in the peace and luxury of the

triumphant church, the more prudent bishops conde­

scended to indulge a visible superstition, for the benefit

of the multitude; and, after the ruin of Paganism, they

were no longer restrained by the apprehension of an

odious parallel. The first introduction of a symbolic

worship was in the veneration of the cross, and of relics.

The saints and martyrs, whose intercession was implored,

were seated on the right hand of God; but the gracious,

and often supernatural favours, which, in the popular

belief, were showered round their tomb, conveyed an un­

questionable sanction of the devout pilgrims, who visited,

and touched, and kissed, these lifeless remains, the me­

morials of their merits and sufferings.11 But a memorial,

more interesting than the skull or the sandals of a de­

parted worthy, is a faithful copy of his person and fea­

tures, delineated by the arts of painting or sculpture.

In every age, such copies, so congenial to human feel­

ings, have been cherished by the zeal of private friend­

ship, or public esteem; the images of the Roman empe­

rors were adored with civil and almost religious honours;

a reverence less ostentatious, but more sincere, was ap­

plied to the statues of sages and patriots; and these

profane virtues, these splendid sins, disappeared in the

presence of the holy men, who had died for their celes-

Theirwor- t*a^ an(^ everlasting country. At first the expe-

•"P. riment was made with caution and scruple; and

the venerable pictures were discreetly allowed to in-

struct the ignorant, to awaken the cold, and to gratify

the prejudices of the heathen proselytes. By a slow

though inevitable progression, the honours of the ori-

private worship of Alexander Severus. (Lampridius, c. 29. Lardner, Heathen

Testimonies, vol. 3. p. 34.)

* See this History vol. 2. p. 445. vol. 3. p. 147. 178—487.

VOL. VI. N

