CHAP. XLYIIJ. . 167

fixed his residence at a distance from the court, at

Oenoe, a town of Pontus, surrounded with rich vine­

yards, and situate on the coast of the Euxine. The

death of Manuel, and the disorders of the minority,

soon opened the fairest field for his ambition. The

emperor was a boy of twelve or fourteen years of age,

without vigour, or wisdom, or experience; his mother,

the empress Mary, abandoned her person and govern­

ment to a favourite of the Comnenian name; and his

sister, another Mary, whose husband, an Italian, was

decorated with the title of Caesar, excited a conspiracy,

and at length an insurrection, against her odious step­

mother. The provinces were forgotten, the capital was

in flames, and a century of peace and order was over­

thrown in the vice and weakness of a few months. A

civil war was kindled in Constantinople; the two fac­

tions fought a bloody battle in the square of the palace,

and the rebels sustained a regular siege in the cathe­

dral of St. Sophia. The patriarch laboured with honest

zeal to heal the wounds of the republic, the most re­

spectable patriots called aloud for a guardian and

avenger, and every tongue repeated the praise of the

talents and even the virtues of Andronicus. In his re­

tirement, he affected to revolve the solemn duties of his

oath. If the safety or honour of the imperial family be

threatened, I will reveal or oppose the mischief to the ut­

most in my power. His correspondence with the patri­

arch and patricians was seasoned with apt quotations

from the Psalms of David and the epistles of St. Paul;

and he patiently waited till he was called to her deli­

verance by the voice of his country. In his march from

Oenoe to Constantinople, his slender train insensibly

swelled to a crowd and an army; his professions of re­

ligion and loyalty were mistaken for the language of

his heart; and the simplicity of a foreign dress, which

shewed to advantage his majestic stature, displayed

a lively image of his poverty and exHe. All opposition

