CHAP. LI. 441

treachery, the Spaniards will repeat the popular story of

his daughter Cava;g of a virgin who was seduced, or

ravished, by her sovereign; of a father who sacrificed

his religion and country, to the thirst of revenge. The

passions of princes have often been licentious and de­

structive; but this well-known tale, romantic in itself,

is indifferently supported by external evidence; and the

history of Spain will suggest some motives of interest

and policy more congenial to the breast of a veteran

state of statesman.'1 After the decease or deposition of

the Gothic Witiza, his two sons were supplanted by the

ambition of Roderic, a noble Goth, whose father,

the duke or governor of a province, had fallen a victim

to the preceding tyranny. The monarchy was still elec­

tive; but the sons of Witiza, educated on the steps of

the throne, were impatient of a private station. Their

resentment was the more dangerous, as it was varnished

with the dissimulation of courts: their followers were

excited by the remembrance of favours and the promise

of a revolution; and their uncle Oppas, archbishop of

Toledo and Seville, was the first person in the church,

and the second in the state. It is probable that Julian

was involved in the disgrace of the unsuccessful faction;

that he had little to hope and much to fear from the new

reign; and that the imprudent king could not forget or

forgive the injuries which Roderic and his family had

sustained. The merit and influence of the count ren­

dered him a useful or formidable subject: his estates

were ample, his followers bold and numerous, and it was

too fatally shewn that, by his Andalusian and Maurita-

nian commands, he held in his hand the keys of the

Spanish monarchy. Too feeble, however, to meet his

» Le viol (says Voltaire) est aussi difficile a faire qu'a prouver. Des
Eveques

se seroient ils lifpea pour une li IK'.? (Hist. Generate, c. 26.) His argument
is not

logically conclusive.

b In the story of Cava, Mariana (lib. 6. c. 2t. p. 241, 242.) seems to vie
with

the Lucretia of Livy. Like the ancients, he seldom quotes; and the oldest tes­

timony of Baronius, (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 713, no. 19.) that of Lucas
Tudensif,

& Galiician deacon of the thirteenth century, only says Cava quam pro
concubinii

utebatur.

