426 ROMAN EMPIRE.

sand seven hundred villages and towns.1 After a long

residence at Cairo, a French consul has ventured to as­

sign about four millions of Mahometans, Christians, and

Jews, for the ample, though not incredible, scope of the

population of Egypt/

Africa. IV. The conquest of Africa, from the Nile to

First inva- the Atlantic ocean,* was first attempted by the

Abdaiiah, arms of the caliph Othman. The pious design

'''was approved by the companions of Mahomet

and the chiefs of the tribes; and twenty thousand Arabs

marched from Medina, with the gifts and the blessings

of the commander of the faithful. They were joined in

the camp of Memphis by twenty thousand of their coun­

trymen: and the conduct of the war was intrusted to

Abdallah,* the son of Said, and the foster-brother of the

caliph, who had lately supplanted the conqueror and the

lieutenant of Egypt. Yet the favour of the prince, and the

merit of his favourite, could not obliterate the guilt of his

apostacy. The early conversion of Abdallah, and his

skilful pen, had recommended him to the important office

of transcribing the sheets of the Koran; he betrayed his

trust, corrupted the text, derided the errors which he had

* The list of Schultens(Index Geograph. ad Calcem Vn. Saladin. p. 5.) contain!  
two thousand three hundred and ninety-six places; that of d'Anville, (Mern.
sar

1'Egypte, p. -'.'. i from the divan of Cairo, enumerates two thousand six
hundred and

ninety-six.

> See Maillet, (Description de 1'Egypte, p. 28.) who seems to argue with can­

dour and judgment. I am much better satisfied with the observations than with

the reading of the French consul. He was ignorant of Greek and Latin
literature,

and his fancy is too much delighted with the fictions of the Arabs. Their best

knowledge is collected by Abulfeda; (Descript. Egypt. Arab, et Lat. a Job.
David

Michaelis, Gottingre, in quarto, 1776.) and in two recent voyages into Egypt,
we

are amused by Savary, and instructed by Volney. I wish the latter could travel

over the globe.

1 My conquest of Africa is drriwn from two French interpreters of Arabic
litera­

ture, Cardonne (Hist, de 1'Afrique et de 1'Espagne sous la Domination des
Arabes,

torn. 1. p. 8—55.) and Otter. (Hist . de 1'Academie des Inscriptions, torn.
21. p.

1ll—125. and 136.) They derive their principal information from Nov.iiri.who

composed, A. D. 1331, an Encyclopedia in more than twenty volumes. The fire

general parts successively treat of, 1. Physics, 2. Man, 3. Animals, 4.
Plants, and,

5. History; and the African affairs are discussed in the sixth chapter of the
fifth

section of this last part. ( Reiske, Prodidagmata ad Hagji Chalifs Tabulas, p.
S32

—334.) Among the older historians who are quoted by Novairi, we may distin­

guish the original narrative of a soldier who led the van of the Moslems.

i See the history of Abdaiiah, iu Abulfeda (Viu Mohammed, p. 103.) and Ga-

srnicr. (Vie dp Mahomet, torn. .'5. p. 15—48.)

