72 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the orthodox line between the sects of Nestorius and

Eutyehes; but the unfortunate question of one will or

operation in the two natures of Christ was generated

by their curious leisure. Their proselyte, the emperor

Heraclius, was rejected as a Maronite from the walls

of Emesa; he found a refuge in the monastery of his

brethren; and their theological lessons were repaid

with the gift of a spacious and wealthy domain. The

name and doctrine of this venerable school were pro­

pagated among the Greeks and Syrians, and their zeal

is expressed by Macarius patriarch of Antioch, who de­

clared before the synod of Constantinople, that sooner

than subscribe the two wills of Christ, he would submit

to be hewn piecemeal, and cast into the sea.' A simi­

lar or a less cruel mode of persecution soon converted

the unresisting subjects of the plain, while the glorious

title of Mardaites," or rebel, was bravely maintained by

the hardy natives of mount Libanus. John Maron,

one of the most learned and popular of the monks, as­

sumed the character of patriarch of Antioch; his ne­

phew Abraham, at the head of the Maronites, defended

their civil and religious freedom against the tyrants of

the east. The son of the orthodox Constantine pursued,

with pio\ls hatred, a people'of soldiers, who might

have stood the bulwark of his empire against the com­

mon foes of Christ and of Rome. An army of Greeks

invaded Syria; the monastery of St. Maron was de­

stroyed with fire; the bravest chieftains were betrayed

and murdered, and twelve thousand of their followers

were transplanted to the distant frontiers of Armenia

and Thrace. Yet the humble nation of the Maronites

has survived the empire of Constantinople, and they

'(Vmi.il. torn. 7. p. 780. Tin' Wonoihrliti.- cause was supported with
firmnesi

and subtlety by Coostantiae, a Syrian priest of Apamea. (p. 1040, .v .)

a Theophanes (Chron. p. 29J, 296. 300. 302. 3QC.) and Cedrenus, (p, 437.

4W-) rebates the exploits of the Mardaites: tbe nape (t$w4. in Syriac
lebellaiit)

trates, from the year 686 to 707, the troubles of, mourn Lib.mus.

