CHAP. LI. 363

Arabs had fixed themselves on the verge of the desert;

and Hira was the seat of a race of kings who had em­

braced the Christian religion, and reigned above six

hundred years under the shadow of the throne of Persia.q

The last of the Mondars was defeated and slain by Ca-

led: his son was sent a captive to Medina; his nobles

bowed before the successor of the prophet: the people

were tempted by the example and success of their coun­

trymen: and the caliph accepted as the first-fruits of

foreign conquest, an annual tribute of seventy thousand

pieces of gold. The conquerors, and even their historians,

were astonished by the dawn of their future greatness.

In the same year (says Elmacin) Cakdfought many sig­

nal battles; an immense multitude of the infidels were

slaughtered; and spoils, infinite and innumerable, were

acquired by the victorious Moslems.* But the invincible

C aled was soon transferred to the Syrian war: the invasion

of the Persian frontier was conducted by less active or less

prudent commanders: the Saracens were repulsed with

loss in the passage of the Euphrates; and, though they

chastised the insolent pursuit of the Magians, their re­

maining forces still hovered in the desert of Babylon.

The indignation and fears of the Persians sus-

Battleof j j f .1 • • . *• j. • •

Cadesia, penoed tor a moment their intestine divisions.

'By the unanimous sentence of the priests and

nobles, their queen Arzema was deposed; the sixth of

the transient usurpers, who had arisen and vanished in

three or four years, since the defeat of Chosroes and the

retreat of Heraclius. Her tiara was placed on the head

of Yezdegerd, the grandson of Chosroes; and the same

q Pocock will explain the chronology, (Specimen Hist. Arabum, p. 66. 74.) and

d'Anville the'geography, (1'Euphrateet le Tigre, p. 125.) of the dynasty of
the Al-

mondars. The English scholar understood more Arabic than the mafti of Aleppo;

(Ockley, vol. 2. p. 34.) the French geographer is equally at home in every age
and

every climate of the world.

•' Fecit et Chaled plurima in hoc anno proelia, in quihus urn.nut. Muslimi, et
iufi-

delium immen8& multitudine occisft spolia infinita et innumera sunt nacti.
(Hist.

Saracenica, p. 20.) The Christian annalist slides into the national and
compen­

dious term of infidels, and loften adopt (I hope without scandal) this
characteristic

mode of expression.

