360 ROMAN EMPIRE.

was consecrated to the expenses of peace and war; a

prudent mixture of justice and bounty maintained the

discipline of the Saracens, and they united, by a rare

felicity, the dispatch and execution of despotism, with

the equal and frugal maxims of a republican government.

The heroic courage of Ali,s the consummate prudence

of Moawiyah,h excited the emulation of their subjects;

and the talents which had been exercised in the school

of civil discord, were more usefully applied to propagate

the faith and dominion of the prophet. In the sloth'

and vanity of the palace of Damascus, the succeeding

princes of the house of Ommiyah were alike destitute of

the qualifications of statesman and of saints.1 Yet the

spoils of unknown nations were continually laid at the

foot of their throne, and the uniform ascent of the Ara­

bian greatness must be ascribed to the spirit of the nation

rather than the abilities of their chiefs. A large de­

duction must be allowed for the weakness of their ene­

mies. The birth of Mahomet was fortunately placed

in the most degenerate and disorderly period of the

Persians, the Romans, and the barbarians of Europe;

the empires of Trajan, or even of Constantine or Char­

lemagne, would have repelled the assault of the naked

Saracens, and the torrent of fanaticism might have been

obscurely lost in the sands of Arabia.

Their con- ^n tne victorious days of the Roman republic,

quests, it had been the aim Of the senate to confine their

consuls and legions to a single war, and completely to

suppress a first enemy before they provoked the hosti­

lities of a second. These timid maxims of policy were

disdained by the magnanimity or enthusiasm of the Ara­

bian caliphs. With the same vigour and success they

s His reign in Eutychius, p. 343. Elmacin, p. 51. Abulpharagius, p. 117. Abul-

feda, p. 83. D'Herbelot, p. 89.

'' His reign in Eutychius, p. 344. Elmacin, p. 54. Abulpharagius, p. 123.
Abul-

feda, p. 101. D'Herbelot, p. 586.

'Their reigns in Eutychius, torn. 2. p. 360—395. Elmacin, p. 59—108. Abul­

pharagius, dynast. 9. p. 124—139. Abulfeda, p. Ill—141. D'Herbelot,
Bibliotheqae

Orientale, p. 691. and the particular articles of the Ommiades.

