CHAP. LI. 437

Hassan, who had invested the slight and insufficient ram­

part of their camp. Whatever yet remained of Carthage,

was delivered to the flames, and the colony of Didoy and

Caesar lay desolate above two hundred years, till a part,

perhaps a twentieth, of the old circumference was repeo-

pled by the first of the Fatimite caliphs. In the begin-

ing of the sixteenth century, the second capital of the

west was represented by a mosch, a college without stu­

dents, twenty-five or thirty shops, and the huts of five

hundred peasants, who, in their abject poverty, displayed

the arrogance of the Punic senators. Even that paltry

village was swept away by the Spaniards whom

Charles V. had stationed in the fortress of the Goletta.

The ruins of Carthage have perished; and the place might

be unknown if some broken arches of an aqueduct did

not guide the footsteps of the inquisitive traveller.2

Final con- The Greeks were expelled, but the Arabians

Africa* were not yet masters of the country. In the

A. D. 698 interior provinces the Moors or Berbers,* so

feeble under the first Caesars, so formidable to

the Byzantine princes, maintained a disorderly resistance

to the religion and power of the successors of Mahomet.

J According to Solinus, (lib. 27. p. 36. edit , Salmas.) the Carthage of Dido
stood

either six hundred and seventy-seven or seven hundred and thirty-seven years;
a

various reading, which proceeds from the difference of AlSS.or editions.
(Sahnas.

Plinian. Exercit. torn. 1. p. 228.) The former of these accounts, which gives
eight

hundred and twenty-three years before Christ, is more consistent with the
well-

weighed testimony of Velleius Paterculus; but the latter is preferred by our
chro-

nologists (Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 398.) as more agreeable to the Hebrew and

Tynan annals.

* Leo African, fol. 71. verso, 72. recto. Mannol, torn. 2. p. 445—447. Shaw, p. 80.

• The history of the word Barbur may be classed under four periods.—1. In

the time of Homer, when the Greeks and Asiatics might probably use a common

idiom, the imitative sound of Barbar was applied to the ruder tribes, whose
pro­

nunciation was most harsh, whose grammar was most defective. Kapi; utc&ifi$xm.

(Iliad 2. 867. with the Oxford scholiast, Clarke's Annotation, and Henry

Stephens' Greek Thesaurus, torn. 1. p. 720.) 2. From the time, at least, of
He-

Todotus, it was extended to all the nations who were strangers to the language
and

manners of the Greeks, 3. In the age of Plautus, the Romans submitted to the

insult (Pompeius Festus, lib. 2. p. 48. edit. Dacier), and freely gave
themselves

the name of barbarians. They insensibly claimed an exemption for Italy, and
her

subject provinces; and at length removed the disgraceful appellation to the
savage

or hostile nations beyond the pale of the empire. 4. In every sense it was due
to

the Moors; the familiar word was borrowed from_ the Latin provincials by the

Arabian conquerors, and ha* j'tK''y rettlrd as n local denomination (Barbaty)
along

the northern coast of Africa.

