CHAP. L. 283

They applauded his commanding presence, his majestic

aspect, his piercing eye, his gracious smile, his flowing

beard, his countenance that painted every sensation of

the soul, and his gestures that enforced each expression

of the tongue. In the familiar offices of life he scru­

pulously adhered to the grave and ceremonious polite­

ness of his country: his respectful attention to the rich

and powerful was dignified by his condescension and

affability to the poorest citizens of Mecca: the frank­

ness of his manner concealed the artifice of his views:

and the habits of courtesy were imputed to personal

friendship or universal benevolence. His memory was

capacious and retentive, his wit easy and social, his

imagination sublime, his judgment clear, rapid, and

decisive. He possessed the courage both of thought

and action; and, although his designs might gradually

expand with his success, the first idea which he enter­

tained of his divine mission bears the stamp of an ori­

ginal and superior genius.. The son of Abdallah was

educated in the bosom of the noblest race, in the use of

the purestdialectof Arabia; and the fluency of his speech

was corrected and enhanced by the practice of discreet

and seasonable silence. With these powers of eloquence,

Mahomet was an illiterate barbarian: his youth had

never been instructed in the arts of reading and writ­

ing;* the common ignorance exempted him from shame

or reproach, but he was reduced to a narrow circle of

existence, and deprived of those faithful mirrors, which

\

* Those who believe that Mahomet could read or write, are incapable of reading  
what is written, with another pen, in the Surata, or chapters of the Koran, 7.
29.

96. These texts, and the tradition of the Sonna, are admitted without doubt by

Abulfeda, (in Vit. c. 7.) Gagnier, ("Not. ad Abulfed. p. 15.) Pocock,
(Specimen,

p. 151.) Reland, (de Religione Mohammedica, p. 236.) and Sale. (Preliminary

Discourse, p. 42.) Mr. White, almost alone, denies the ignorance, to accuse
the

imposture of the prophet. His arguments are far from satisfactory. Two short

trading journeys to the fairs of Syria, were surely not sufficient to infuse a
science

so rare among the citizens of Mecca: it was not in the cool deliberate act of
a

treaty that Mahomet would have dropped the mask; nor can any conclusion be

drawn from the words of disease and deliriurn. The lettered youth, before he

aspired to the prophetic character, must have often exercised, in private
life, the

arts of reading and writing; and his first converts of his own family, would
have

been the first to detect and uphraid his scandalous hypocrisy. (White's
Sermons,

p.203, 204. Notes, p. 36—38.)

