106 ROMAN EMPIRE.

church might sometimes impose a lesson of clemency;

but it may be questioned whether it is for the public in­

terest to diminish the perils of unsuccessful ambition.

Leoin. I nave dwelt on the fall of a tyrant; I shall

The isau- .briefly represent the founder of a new dynasty,

A. D. TIB, who is known to posterity by the invectives of

"' his enemies, and whose public and private life

is involved in the ecclesiastical story of the Iconoclasts.

Yet in spite of the clamours of superstition, a favourable

prejudice for the character of Leo the Isaurian, may be

reasonably drawn from the obscurity of his birth, and

the duration of his reign.—I. In an age of manly spirit,

the prospect of an imperial reward would have kindled

every energy of the mind, and produced a crowd of

competitors as deserving as they were desirous to reign.

Even in the corruption and debility of the modern

Greeks, the elevation of a plebeian from the last to the

first rank of society, supposes some qualifications above

the level of the multitude. He would probably be ig­

norant and disdainful of speculative science; and in the

pursuit of fortune, he might absolve himself from the

obligations of benevolence and justice; but to his charac­

ter we may ascribe the useful virtues of prudence and

fortitude, the knowledge of mankind, and the important

art of gaining their confidence and directing their pas­

sions. It is agreed that Leo was a native of Isauria,

and that Conon was his primitive name. The writers,

whose awkward satire is praise, describe him as an itine­

rant pedlar, who drove an ass with some paltry mer­

chandise to the country fairs; and foolishly relate that

he met on the road some Jewish fortune-tellers, who

promised him the Roman empire, on condition that he

should abolish the worship of idols. A more probable

account relates the migration of his father from Asia

Minor to Thrace, where he exercised the lucrative trade

of a grazier; and he must have acquired considerable

wealth, since the first introduction of his son was pro­

