66 ROMAN EMPIRE.

with a cargo of pearls and spices rewarded the zeal of

the English monarch, who entertained the largest pro­

jects of trade and discovery.11 When the Portuguese

first opened the navigation of India, the Christians of

St. Thomas had been seated for ages on the coast of

Malabar, and the difference of their character and colour

attested the mixture of a foreign race. In arms, in arts,

and possibly in virtue, they excelled the natives ofHin-

dostan: the husbandman cultivated the palm-tree, the

merchants were enriched by the pepper-trade, the sol­

diers preceded the nairs or nobles of Malabar, and their

hereditary privileges were respected by the gratitude or

the fear of the king of Cochin and the Zamorin him­

self. They acknowledged a Gentoo sovereign; but

they were governed, even in temporal concerns, by the

bishop of Angamala. He still asserted his ancient title

of Metropolitan of India, but his real jurisdiction was

exercised in fourteen hundred churches, and he was in?

trusted with the care of two hundred thousand souls.

A. D. looo, Their religion would have rendered them the

&c. firmest and mostcordial allies of the Portuguese,

but the inquisitors soon discerned in the Christians of St.

Thomas, the unpardonable guilt of heresy and schism.

Instead of owning themselves the subjects of the Roman

pontiff, thespiritual and temporal monarch of the globe,

they adhered, like their ancestors, to the communion of

the Nestorian patriarch; and the bishops, whom he or­

dained at Mosul, traversed the dangers of the sea and

land to reach their diocess on the coast of Malabar. In

their Syriac liturgy, the names of Theodore and Nesto-

riuswerepiouslycommemorated: they united their adora­

tion of the two persons of Christ; the title of Mother of

11 Neither the author of the Saxon Chronicle, (A.D. 833.) nor William of

Malmeshury, (de Gestis Regum Angliie, lib. 2. c. 4. p. 44.) were capable, in
the

twelfth century, of inventing this extraordinary facf: they are incapable of
ex­

plaining the motives and measures of Alfred; and their hasty notice serves
only

to provoke our curiosity, William of Malmeshury feels the difficulty of the
enter­

prise, quod quivis in hoc seculo miretur; and I almost suspect that the
English

ambassadors collected their cargo and legend in Egypt. The royal authority has

not enriched his Orosius (see Harrington's Miscellanies) with an Indian as
well

as a Scandinavian voyage.

