232 ROMAN EMPIRE.

this occasion to have foreseen and prevented the latent

claims of the clergy. The royal youth was com­

manded to take the crown from the altar, and

with his own hands to place it on his head, as a gift

which he held from God, his father, and the nation."

The same ceremony was repeated, though with less

energy, in the subsequent associations of Lothaire and

Lewis II.; the Carlovingian sceptre was transmitted

from father to son in a lineal descent of four genera­

tions; and the ambition of the popes was reduced to

the empty honour of crowning and anointing these

hereditary princes who were already invested with their

Lewis the power and dominion. The pious Lewis sur-

^'Ps' vived his brothers, and embraced the whole

814—840. empire of Charlemagne; but the nations and the

nobles, his bishops and his children, quickly descerned

that this mighty mass was no longer inspired by the

same soul; and the foundations were undermined to

the centre, while the external surface was yet fair and

entire. After a war, or battle, which consumed one

hundred thousand Franks, the empire was divided by

treaty between his three sons, who had violated every

filial and fraternal duty. The kingdoms of Germany

Lothaire I.and France were for ever separated; the pro-

A-P.- vinces of Gaul, between the Rhone and the

Alps, the Meuse and the Rhine, were assigned,

with Italy, to the imperial dignity of Lothaire. In the

partition of his share, Lorraine and Arles, two recent

and transitory kingdoms, were bestowed on the younger

Lewis ii children; and Lewis II. his eldest son, was con-

A. D. sae tent with the realm of Italy, the proper and suf­

ficient patrimony of a Roman emperor. On his

death without any male issue, the vacant throne was

disputed by his uncles and cousins, and the popes

• Thegan, the biographer of Lewis, relates this coronation; and Baronius has

honestly transcribed it, (A. D. 813. no. 13, &c. see Gaillard, torn. 3. p.
506—508.)

howsoever adverse to the claims of the popes. For the series of the
Carlovingians,

see the historians of France, Italy, and Germany ; Pfeffel, Schmidt, Velly,
Mura-

tori, and even Voltaire, whose pictures are sometimes just, and always
pleasing.

