CHAP. LI. 365

day of succour. The day of concussion might express

the disorder of one, or perhaps of both, of the contending

armies. The third, a nocturnal tumult, received the

whimsical name of the night of barking, from the dis­

cordant clamours, which were compared to the inarticu­

late sounds of the fiercest animals. The morning of the

succeeding day determined the fate of Persia; and a

seasonable whirlwind drove a cloud of dust against the

faces of the unbelievers. The clangour of arms was re­

echoed to the tent of Rustam, who, far unlike the ancient

hero of his name, was gently reclining in a cool and

tranquil shade, amidst the baggage of his camp, and the

train of mules that were laden with gold and silver. On

the sound of danger he started from his couch; but his

flight was overtaken by a valiant Arab, who caught him

by the foot, struck off his head, hoisted it on a lance,

and instantly returning to the field of battle, carried

slaughter and dismay among the thickest ranks of the

Persians. The Saracens confess a loss of seven thou­

sand five hundred men; and the battle of Cadesia is

justly described by the epithets of obstinate and atro­

cious.1 The standard of the monarchy was overthrown

and captured in the field,—a leathern apron of a black­

smith, who, in ancient times, had arisen the deliverer of

Persia; but this badge of heroic poverty was disguised,

and almost concealed, by a profusion of precious gems.y

After this victory, the wealthy province of Irak or Assy­

ria submitted to the caliph, and his conquests were

firmly established by the speedy foundation of Bas-

sora,z a place which ever commands the trade and navi­

gation of the Persians. At the distance of fourscore

* Atrox, contumax, plus semel renovatum, are the well-chosen expressions of  
the translator of Abnlfeda. (Reiske, p. 69.)

r D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 297. 348.

1The reader may satisfy himself on the subject of Bassora, by consulting the

following writers.—Geograph. Nubians, p.121. D'Herbelot,
BibliothrqueOrientale,

p. 199. D'Anville, 1'Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 13O. 133.145. Raynal, Hist.
Philoso-

phique des deux Indes, torn. 2. p. 92—10O. Voyages de Pietro della Valle,
torn. p.

370—391. De Tavcraier, torn. 1. p. 240—247. De Thevenot, torn. 2. p. 545—584.

D'Otter, torn. 3. p. 45—78. De Niebuhr, torn. 2. p. 172—199.

