CHAP. LI. 375

and the camp of Medina was successively filled with the

intrepid bands of the Saracens, who panted for action,

complained of the heat of the season, and the scarcity of

provisions; and accused with impatient murmurs the

delays of the caliph. As soon as their numbers were

complete, Abubeker ascended the hiH, reviewed the men,

the horses, and the arms, and poured forth a fervent

prayer for the success of their undertaking. In person

and on foot, he accompanied the first day's march; and

when the blushing leaders attempted to dismount, the

caliph removed their scruples by a declaration, that those

who rode, and those who walked, in the service of reli­

gion, were equally meritorious. His instructions7 to the

chiefs of the Syrian army, were inspired by the warlike

fanaticism which advances to seize, and affects to despise,

the objects of worldly ambition. Remember (said the

successor of the prophet) that you are always in the pre­

sence of God, on the verge of death, in the assurance of

judgment, and the hope of paradise. Avoid injustice and

oppression; consult with your brethren, and study to pre­

serve the love and confidence of your troops. When you

fight the battles of the Lord, acquit yourselves like men,

without turning your back; but let not your victory be

stained with the blood of women or children. Destroy no

palm-trees, nor burn any fields of corn. Cut down no

fruit-trees, nor do any mischief to cattle, only such as

you kill to eat. When you make any covenant or article,

stand to it, and be as good as your word. As you go on,

you will find some religious persons who live retired in mo­

nasteries, and propose to themselves to serve God that

way: let them alone, and neither kill them nor destroy

their monasteries ? and you will find another sort of people

J The instructions, &c. of the Syrian war, are described by Al Wakidi and Ock-

ley, torn. 1. p. 22—27, &c. In the sequel it is necessary to contract, and
needless

to quote, their circumstantial narrativi-:. My obligations to others shall be
noticed.

'Notwithstanding this precept, M.Pauw (Kecherch.es $ur les Egyptiens, torn. 2.

p. 192. edit. Lausanne) represents the Bedoweens sis the implacable enemies of

the Christian monks. For my own part I am more inclined to suspect.the avarice

of the Arabian robbe», and the .prejudices of i he German philosopher.

