CHAP. L. 281

tution of his cattle. And why (said Abrahah) do you

not rather implore my clemency in favour of your temple,

which I have threatened to destroy?—Because (replied

the intrepid chief) the cattle is my own: the Caaba be­

longs to the gods, and they will defend their house from

injury and sacrilege. The want of provisions, or the

valour of the Koreish, compelled the Abyssinians to a

disgraceful retreat: their discomfiture has been adorned

with a miraculous flight of birds, who showered down

stones on the heads of the infidels; and the deliverance

was long commemorated by the era of the elephant.1

The glory of Abdol Motalleb was crowned with

Deliver- , . •. • i-/,

anceof domestic happiness, his hie was prolonged to

the age of one hundred and ten years, and he

became the father of six daughters and thirteen sons.

His best beloved Abdallah was the most beautiful

and modest of the Arabian youth; and in the first night,

when he consummated his marriage with Amina, of the

noble race of the Zahrites, two hundred virgins are said

to have expired of jealousy and despair. Mahomet,

or more properly Mahommed, the only son of Abdallah

and Amina, was born at Mecca, four years after the

death of Justinian, and two months after the defeat of

the Abyssinians,u whose victory would have introduced

into the Caaba the religion of the Christians. In his

early infancy, he was deprived of his father, his mother,

'The M'cnr of this history, or fable, is contained in the one hundred and
fifth

chapter of the Koran, and Gagnier (in Prsefat. ad Vit. Moharn. p. 18, &c.) has

translated the historical narrative of Abulfeda, which may be illustrated from

d'Herbelot (Bibliot. Orientale, p. 12.) and Focock. (Specimen, p. 64.) Pri-

deaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 48.) calls it a lie of the coinage of Mahomet; but

Sale, (Koran, p. 501—503.) who is half a Mussulman, attacks the inconsistent

faith of the doctor for believing the miracles of the Delphic Apollo. Maracci

(Alcoran, torn. 1. part 'J. p. 14. torn. 2. p. 823.) ascribes the miracle to
the devil,

and extorts from the Mahometans the confession, that God would not have de­

fended against the Christians the idols of the Caaba.

"The safest eras of Abulfeda, (in Vit . c. 1. p. 2.) of Alexander, or the
Greeks,

88^, of Bocht Naser, or Nabonasser, 1316, equally lead us to the year 569. The

old Arabian calendar is too dark and uncertain to support the Benedictines,
(Art

de verifier les Dates, p. 15.) who from the day of the month and week deduce a

new mode of calculation, and remove the birth of Mahomet to the year of Christ

570, the tenth of November. Yet this date would agree with the year 882 of the

Greeks, which is assigned by Elmaciu (Hist. Saracen, p. 5.) and Abulpharagius.

(Dynast.p. 101. and Errata Pocock's version.) While we refine our chronology,

it is possible that the illiterate prophet was ignorant of his own age.

