CHAP. LI. 427

made, and fled to Mecca, to escape the justice, and ex­

pose the ignorance, of the apostle. After the conquest

of Mecca, he fell prostrate at the feet of Mahomet: his

tears, and the entreaties of Othman, extorted a reluc­

tant pardon; but the prophet declared that he had so

long hesitated, to allow time for some zealous disciple to

avenge his injury in the blood of the apostate. With

apparent fidelity, and effective merit, he served the re­

ligion which it was no longer his interest to desert: his

birth and talents gave him an honourable rank among

the Koreish; and in a nation of cavalry, Abdallah was

renowned as the boldest and most dexterous horseman of

Arabia. At the head of forty thousand Moslems, he ad­

vanced from Egypt into the unknown countries of the

west. The sands of Barca might be impervious to a

Roman legion; but the Arabs were attended by their

faithful camels; and the natives of the desert beheld

without terror the familiar aspect of the soil and climate.

After a painful march, they pitched their tents before the

walls of Tripoli,b a maritime city in which the name, the

wealth, and the inhabitants, of the province had gradu­

ally centred, and which now maintains the third rank

among the states of Barbary. A reinforcement of Greeks

was surprised and cut in pieces on the sea-shore; but

the fortifications of Tripoli resisted the first assaults; and

the Saracens were tempted, by the approach of the pre­

fect Gregory,0 to relinquish the labours of the siege for

the perils and the hopes of a decisive action. If his

* The province and city of Tripoli are described by Leo Africanus (in Naviga-  
tione et Viaggi di Ramnsio, torn. 1. Venetia, 1550, fol. 76. IT/HI) and
Marmol.

(Description de 1'Afrique, torn. 2. p. 562.) The first of these writers was a
Moor,

a scholar, and a traveller, who composed or translated his African geography
in a

Mate of captivity at Rome, where he had assumed the name and religion of pope

Leo X. In a similar captivity among the Moors, the Spaniard Marmol, a soldier

of Charles V. compiled his description of Africa, translated by d'Ablancourt
into

French (Paris, 1667, three vols. in quarto): Marmol had read and seen, but he
is

destitute of the cnrious and extensive observation which abounds in the
original

work of Leo the African.

c Theophanes, who mentions the defeat, rather than the death, of Gregory. He

brands the prefect with the name of Tupavw;; he had probably assumed the
purple.

(Chronograph, p. 285.)

