24 ROMAN EMPIRE.

nounced the opening of the synod sixteen days after the

festival of Pentecost. Nestorius, who depended on the

near approach of his eastern friends, persisted, like his

predecessor Chrysostom, to disclaim the jurisdiction,

and to disobey the summons, of his enemies: they has­

tened his trial, and his accuser presided in the seat of

judgment. Sixty-eight bishops, twenty-two of metro­

politan rank, defended his cause by a modest and tem­

perate protest; they were excluded from the counsels

of their brethren. Candidian, in the emperor's name,

requested a delay of four days; the profane magistrate

was driven with outrage and insult from the assembly

Condem- of the saints. The whole of this momentous

Nestorius transaction was crowded into the compass of a

June 22. summer's day; the bishops delivered their sepa­

rate opinions; but the uniformity of style reveals the

influence or the hand of a master, who has been ac­

cused of corrupting the public evidence of their acts

and subscriptions.* Without a dissenting voice, they

recognised in the epistles of Cyril, the Nicene creed

and the doctrine of the fathers: but the partial -extracts

from the letters and homilies of Nestorius were in­

terrupted by curses and anathemas; and the heretic

was degraded from his episcopal and ecclesiastical

dignity. The sentence, maliciously inscribed to the

new Judas, was affixed and proclaimed in the streets

of Ephesus: the weary prelates, as they issued from the

church of the mother of God, were saluted as her cham­

pions; and her victory was celebrated by the illumi­

nations, the songs, and the tumult of the night.

On the fifth day, the triumph was clouded

Opposition i o i

of the by the arrival and indignation of the eastern

junta?! bishops. In a chamber of the inn, before he

&c" had wiped the dust from his shoes, John of

Antioch gave audience to Candidian the imperial mi­

fja xara, TO >f» to. tv E$t7u rvmfoncu ;-:;<., B/XUT-"- mmofyi? Ji *iu tm

a6tr/ju> xaivDTo/uia KufiXXou nyja^mtt. Evagrius, lib. 1.e. 7. The same
imputation

was urged by count Iraasus; (torn. 3. p. 1 249.) and the orthodox critics do
not

find it an easy task to defend the purity of the Greek or Latin copies of the
Acts.

