CHAP. LI I. 493

made of the same precious metals, as well as the leaves of

the tree. While the machinery effected spontaneous mo­

tions, the several birds warbled their natural harmony.

Through this scene of magnificence, the Greek ambassa­

dor was led by the vizier to the foot of the caliph's throne*

In the west, the Ommiades of Spain supported, with

equal pomp, the title of commander of the faithful.

Three miles from Cordova, in honour of his favourite sul­

tana, the third and greatest of the Abdelrahmans con­

structed the city, palace, and gardens, of Zehra. Twen­

ty-five years, and above three millions sterling, were em­

ployed by the founder: his liberal taste invited the

artists of Constantinople, the most skilful sculptors and

architects of the age; and the buildings were sustained

or adorned by twelve hundred columns of Spanish and

African, of Greek and Italian marble. The hall of au­

dience was incrusted with gold and pearls, and a great

basin in the centre was surrounded with the curious and

costly figures of birds and quadrupeds. In a lofty pavi­

lion of the gardens, one of these basins and fountains, so

delightful in a sultry climate, was replenished, not with

water, but with the purest quicksilver. The seraglio of

Abdalrahman,his wives, concubines, and black eunuchs,

amounted to six thousand three hundred persons; and

he was attended to the field by a guard of twelve thou­

sand horse, whose belts and scimitars were studded

with gold.0

its conse- In a private condition, our desires are perpe-

tually repressed by poverty and subordination;

»ate and but ^ne lives an(J labours of millions are devoted

public

happiness, to the service of a despotic prince, whose laws

are blindly obeyed, and whose wishes are instantly gra­

b Abulfeda, p. 237. d'Herbelot, p. 509. This embassy was received at Bagdad,

A. H. 305, A. D. 917. In the passage of Abulfeda, I bave used, with some
varia­

tions, the English translation of the tearned and amiable Mr. Harris of
Salishury.

(Philological Inquiries, p. 363, 364.)

a Cardonne, Histoire de 1'Afrique et de 1'Espagne, torn. 1. p. 330 — 336. A
just

idea of the taste and architecture of the Arabians of Spain, may be conceived
from

the description and plates of the Alhambra of Grenada. (Swinburne's Travels,

p. 171—188.)

