CHAP. LII. 517

hoped to deprecate the fate of Araorium: the inexorable

caliph rejected with contempt his prayers and promises;

and detained the Roman ambassadors to be the witnesses

of his great revenge. They had nearly been the wit­

nesses of his shame. The vigorous assaults of fifty-five

days were encountered by a faithful governor, a veteran

garrison, and a desperate people; and the Saracens

must have raised the siege if a domestic traitor had not

pointed to the weakest part of the wall, a place which

was decorated with the statues of a lion and a bull.

The vow of Motassem was accomplished with unre­

lenting rigour: tired, rather than satiated, with destruc­

tion, he returned to his new palace of Samara, in the

neighbourhood of Bagdad, while the unfortunate Theo-

philus implored the tardy and doubtful aid of his western

rival the emperor of the Franks. Yet in the siege of

Amorium above seventy thousand Moslems had perished:

their loss had been revenged by the slaughter of thirty

thousand Christians, and the sufferings of an equal num­

ber of captives, who were treated as the most atrocious

criminals. Mutual necessity could sometimes extort the

exchange or ransom of prisoners ;b but in the national

and religious conflict of the two empires, peace was

without confidence, and war without mercy. Quarter was

seldom given in the field; those who escaped the edge

of the sword, were condemned to hopeless servitude, or

exquisite torture; and a Catholic emperor relates, with

visible satisfaction, the execution of the Saracens of

Crete, who were flayed alive, or plunged into caldrons

* In the east he was styled Aurv^n;; (Continuator Theophan. lib. 3. p. 84.) but  
such was the ignorance of the west, that his ambassadors, in public discourse,

might boldly narrate, de victoriis, quas adversns exteras bcllando gentes
coelitus

fuerat assecutus. (Annalist. Bertinian. apud Pagi, torn. 3. p. 720.)

lj Abu'pharagius (Dynast, p. 167,163.) relates one of these singular
transactions

on the bridge of the river Lamas in Cilicia, the limit of the two empires, and
one

day's journey westward of Tarsus. ( D'Anville, Geographic Ancienne, torn. 2.
p. 91.)

Four thousand four hundred and sixty Moslems, eighthundred women and children,

one hundred confederates, were exchanged for an equal number of Greeks. They

passed each other in the middle of the bridge, and when they reached their
respec­

tive friends, they shouted Allah Ackar, and Kyrie Eltison. Many of the
prisoners of

Amorium were probably among them, but in the same year (A. H. 231.) the most

llustrious of the-i, the forty-two martyrs, were beheaded by the caliph's
order.

