CHAP. LII. 529

from the extremity of Africa, these successful rivals ex­

tinguished in Egypt and Syria, both the spiritual and

temporal authority of the Abbassides; and the monarch

of the Nile insulted the humble pontiff on the banks of

the Tigris.

Enterprises In the declining age of the caliphs, in the

GreeL, century which elapsed after the war of Theophi-

A.D.960. \us an(j Motassem, the hostile transactions of the

two nations were confined to some inroads by sea and

land, the fruits of their close vicinity and indelible ha­

tred. But when the eastern world was convulsed and

broken, the Greeks were roused from their lethargy by

the hopes of conquest and revenge. The Byzantine em­

pire, since the accession of the Basilian race, had reposed

in peace and dignity; and they'might encounter with

their entire strength the front of some petty emir, whose

rear was assaulted and threatened by his national foes

of the Mahometan faith. The lofty titles of the morning

star, and the death of the Saracens,' were applied in the

public acclamations to Nicephorus Phocas, a prince as

renowned in the camp as he was unpopular in the city.

Reduction In the subordinate station of great domestic, or

of Creus. general of the east, he reduced the island of Crete,

and extirpated the nest of pirates who had so long defied,

with impunity, the majesty of the empire." His military

genius was displayed in the conduct and success of the

enterprise, which had so often failed with loss and dis­

honour. The Saracens were confounded by the landing

of his troops on safe and level bridges, which he cast

from the vessels to the shore. Seven months were con­

sumed in the siege of CJandia; the despair of the native

'Liutprand, whose choleric temper was imbittcred by his uneasy situation, sug­

gests the names of reproach and contempt more applicable to Nicephorus than
the

vain titles of the Greeks, Ecce venit stella matutina, surgit Eous, reverberat
obtutd

solis radios, pallida Saracenorum mors, Nicephorus /uilov.

11 Notwithstanding tho insinuations of Zonaras, x4i n /un, &c, (torn. 2. lib.
16.

& 197.) it is an undoubted fact, that Crete was completely and finally subdued
by

icephorus Phocas. (Pagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 873—875. Meursius, Creta, lib.
3.

c. 7.torn.3. p. 464,465.)

VOL. VI. 2 M

