CHAP. LI. 377

bio, ;b and the first arms of the Saracens were justified by

the semblance of a national right. The country was en­

riched by the various benefits of trade; by the vigilance

of the emperors it was covered with a line of forts; and

the populous cities of Gerasa, Philadelphia, and Bosra,c

were secure, at least from a surprise, by the solid struc­

ture of their walls. The last of these cities was the eigh­

teenth station of Medina: the road was familiar to the

caravans of Hejaz and Irak, who annually visited this

plenteous market of the province and the desert: the

perpetual jealousy of the Arabs had trained the inha­

bitants to arms; and twelve thousand horse could sally

from the gates of Bosra, an appellation which signifies,

in the Syriac language, a strong tower of defence. En­

couraged by their first success against the open towns

and flying parties of the borders, a detachment of four

thousand Moslems presumed to summon and attack the

fortress of Bosra. They were oppressed by the numbers

of the Syrians; they were saved by the presence of Caled,

with fifteen hundred horse: he blamed the enterprise,

restored the battle, and rescued his friend, the venerable

Serjabil, who had vainly invoked the unity of God and

the promise of the apostle. After a short repose, the

Moslems performed their ablutions with sand instead of

water ;d and the morning prayer was recited by Caled

before they mounted on horseback. Confident of their

strength, the people of Bosra threw open their gates,

1 Hoic Arabia est conserta, ex alio latere Nabathaeis contigua; opima
varietate

commeruorum, castrisque oppleta validis et castellis, quse ad repellendo*
gentium

vicinarum excursus, solicitude per vigil neterum per opportunos saltus erexit
et

cautes. Ammian. Marcellin. it. 8. Reland. Palestin. torn. 1. p. 85, 86.

'With Gerasa and Philadelphia, Ammianus praises the fortifications of Bosra

nnnitate cautissimas. They deserved the same praise in the time of Abulfeda,

(Tabul. Syria, p. 99.) who describes this city, the metropolis of Hawran
(Aura-

nitis) four days' journey from Damascus. The Hebrew etymology 1 learn from

Reland. Palestin. torn. 2. p. 666.

ii The apostle of a desert and an army was obliged to allow this ready
succeda-

neum for water ; (Koran, c. 3. p. 66. c. 5. p. 83.) but the Arabian and
Persian ca-

suists have embarrassed his free permission with many niceties and
distinctions.

(Reland. de Relig. Mohammed, lib. 1. p. 82, 83. Chardin, Voyages en Perse,

torn. 4.)

