78 ROMAN EMPIRE.

and John,' laboured in the conversion of heretics,

with arms and arguments more worthy of their evange-

Euiogius, lical profession. The theological knowledge of

A.D.580. Eulogius was displayed in many a volume, which

magnified the errors of Eutyches and Severus, and at­

tempted to reconcile the ambiguous language of St.

Cyril with the orthodox creed of pope Leo and the

John, fathers of Chalcedon. The bounteous alms of

A. D. 609. j0lfn the eleemosynary were dictated by super­

stition, or benevolence, or policy. Seven thousand

five hundred poor were maintained at his expense; on

his accession, he found eight thousand pounds of gold

in the treasury of the church; he collected ten thousand

from the liberality of the faithful; yet the primate could

boast in his testament, that he left behind him no more

than the third part of the smallest of the silver coins.

The churches of Alexandria were delivered to the Ca­

tholics, the religion of the Monophysites was proscribed

in Egypt, and a law was revived which excluded the

natives from the honours and emoluments of the state.

Theirse a- ^ more important conquest still remained, of

rationand the patriarch, the oracle and leader of the Egyp-

BCay' tian church. Theodosius had resisted the threats

and promises of Justinian with the spirit of an apostle

or an enthusiast. Such (replied the patriarch), were the

offers of the tempter when he shewed the kingdoms of

the earth. But my soul is far dearer to me than life

or dominion. The churches are in the hands of a prince

who can kill the body; but my conscience is my own; and

in exile, poverty, or chains, I will steadfastly adhere to

the faith of my holy predecessors, Athanasius, Cyril, and

Dioscorus. Anathema to the tome of Leo and the synod

of Chalcedon; Anathema to all who embrace their creed!

1 See the life of John the eleemosynary by his contemporary Leontius, bishop
of

Neapolis in Cyprus, whose Greek text, either lost or hidden, is reflected in
the

Latin version of Baronius, (A. D. 619. no. 9. A. D. 629. no. 8.) Pagi,
(Critica,

torn. 2. p. 763.) and Fabricius, (lib. 5. c. 11. torn. 7. p. 454.) have made
some

critical observations.

