314 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Beder,0 three stations from Medina, he was informed by

his scouts of the caravan that approached on one side;

of the Koreish, one hundred horse, eight hundred and

fifty foot, who advanced on the other. After a short

debate, he sacrificed the prospect of wealth to the pur­

suit of glory and revenge; and a slight intrenchment

was formed to cover his troops, and a stream of fresh

Battle of water that glided through the valley. O God

Bedsr, (he exclaimed as the numbers of the Koreish de-

'scended from the hills), O God, if these are de­

stroyed, by whom wilt thou be worshipped on the earth?

Courage, my children, close your ranks; discharge your

arrows, and the day is your own. At these words he

placed himself, with Abubeker, on a throne or pulpit/

and instantly demanded the succour of Gabriel and

three thousand angels. His eye was fixed on the field

of battle: the Mussulmans fainted and were pressed:

in that decisive moment the prophet started from his

throne, mounted his horse, and cast a handful of sand

into the air. Let their faces be covered with confusion.

Both armies heard the thunder of his voice: their fancy

beheld the angelic warriors :q the Koreish trembled and

fled; seventy of the bravest were slain; and seventy

captives adorned the first victory of the faithful. The

dead bodies of the Koreish were despoiled and insulted;

0 Bedder Houneene, twenty miles from Medina, and forty from Mecca, is on

the high road of the caravan from Egypt; and the pilgrims annually commemorate

the prophet's victory by illuminations, rockets, &c. Shaw's Travels, p. 477.

P The place to which Mahomet retired during the action is styled by Gagnier,

(in Abulfeda, c. 27. p. 58. Vie de Mahomet, torn. 2. p. 30. 33.) Unhruculum,
une

tage di' bail aucc une porte. The same Arabic word is rendered by Reiske
(Annaks

de Moslemici Abulfeds, p. 23.) by Solium Suggestus editor; and the difference
is

of the utmost moment for the honour both of the interpreter and of the hero. I
am

sorry to observe the pride and acrimony with which fteiske chastises his fol­

low labourer. Sspe sic vertit, ut Integra paginie nequeant nisi una lilurft
corrigi:

Aral ,irc. non satis callebat et carebat judicio critico. J. J. Reiske,
prodidagmata

ad Hagji ChalistB-Tabulas, p. 228. ad calcem AbulfedtB Syris Tabuls; Lepmie,

1766, in quarto.

1 The loose expressions of the Koran (c. 3. p. U4,125. c. 8. p. 9.) allow the

commentators to fluctuate between the numbers of one thousand, three thousand,

or nine thousand angels ; and the smallest of these might suffice for the
slaughter

of seventy of the Koreish. (Maracci, Alcoran, torn. 2. p. 131.) Yet the
scholiasts

confess, that this angelic band was not visible to any mortal eye. (Maracci,

p. 297.j They refine on the words, (c. 8.16.) " not thou, but God." &c.
(D'Her.

Mot, Bibliot. Orientate, p. 600, 601.)

