64 ROMAN EMPIRE.

both of the Greeks and Persians. The missionaries of

Balch and Samarcand pursued without fear the footsteps

of the roving Tartar, and insinuated themselves into the

camps of the valleys of Imaus and the banks of the Se-

linga. They exposed a metaphysical creed to those il­

literate shepherds: to those sanguinary warriors, they

recommended humanity and repose. Yet a khan, whose

power they vainly magnified, is said to have received at

their hands the rites of baptism, and even of ordination;

and the fame of Prester or Presbyter Johnb has long

amused the credulity of Europe. The royal convert was

indulged in the use of a portable altar; but he dispatched

an embassy to the patriarch, to inquire how, in the sea­

son of Lent, he should abstain from animal food, and

how he might celebrate the eucharist in a desert that

produced neither corn nor wine. In their progress by

sea and land, the Nestorians entered China by the port

of Canton and the northern residence of Sigan. Unlike

the senators of Rome, who assumed with a smile the

characters of priests and augurs, the mandarins, who

affect in public the reason of philosophers, are devoted

in private to every mode of popular superstition. They

cherished and they confounded the gods of Palestine and

of India; but the propagation of Christianity awakened

the jealousy of the state, and, after a short vicissitude of

favour and persecution, the foreign sect expired in igno­

rance and oblivion.0 Under the reign of the caliphs, the

Nestorian church was diffused from China to Jerusalem

b In its long progress to Mosul, Jerusalem, Rome, &c. the story of Prester
John

evaporated in a monstrous fable, of which some features have been borrowed
from

the Lama of Thibet, (Hist. Genealogique des Tartares, p. 2. p. 42. Hist, de
Gen-

giscan, p. 31, &c.) and were ignorantly transferred by the Portuguese to the
emperor

of Abyssinia. (Ludolph. Hist, .flithiop. Comment, lib. t. c. 1.) Yet it is
probable

that, m the eleventh and twelfth centuries, Nestorian Christianity was
professed in

the horde of Koraites.(d'Herbelot,,p. 256.915.959. Assemanni,torn. 4.
p.468—504.)

c The Christianity of China, between the seventh and the thirteenth century,
is in­

vmcibly proved by the consent of Chinese, Arabian, Syriac, and Latin evidence.
(As­

semanni, Biblioth. Orient, torn. 4. p. 502—552. Mern. de 1'Academie des
Inscript.

torn. 30. p. 802—819.) The inscription of Sigansu, which describes the
fortunes of

the Nestorian church, from the first mission, A. D. 636, to the current year
781, is

accused of forgery by l.a Croze, Voltaire, &c. who become the dupes of their
own

tunning, while they are afraid of a Jesuitical fraud.

