CHAP. L. 313

which would extinguish both industry and virtue, if the

actions of man were governed by his speculative belief.

Yet their influence in every age has exalted the courage

of the Saracens and Turks. The first companions of

Mahomet advanced to battle with a fearless confidence:

there is no danger where there is no chance: they were

ordained to perish in their beds; or they were safe and

invulnerable amidst the darts of the enemy.™

His defen- Perhaps the Koreish would have been content

with the flight of Mahomet, had they not been

Provoked and alarmed by the vengeance of an

Mecca, enemy, who could intercept their Syrian trade as

it passed and repassed through the territory of Medina.

Abu Sophian himself, with only thirty or forty followers,

conducted a wealthy caravan of a thousand camels: the

fortune or dexterity of his march escaped the vigilance

of Mahomet; but the chief of the Koreish was informed

that the holy robbers were placed in ambush to wait his

return. He dispatched a messenger to his brethren of

Mecca, and they were roused, by the fear of losing their

merchandise and their provisions, unless they hastened

to his relief with the military force of the city. The

sacred band of Mahomet was formed of three hundred

and thirteen Moslems, of whom seventy-seven were

fugitives, and the rest auxiliaries: they mounted by

turns a train of seventy camels (the camels of Yathreb

were formidable in war): but such was the poverty of

his first disciples, that only two could appear on horse­

back in the field." In the fertile and famous vale of

"The doctrine of absolute predestination, on which few religions can reproach

each other, is sternly exposed in the Koran, (c. 3. p. 52, 53. c. 4. p. 70,
Sec. with

the notes of Sale, and c. 17. p. 413. with those of Maracci.) Reland (de
Relig. Mo-

hanun. p. 61—64.) and Sale (Prelirn. Discourse, p. 103.) represents the
opinion*

of the doctors, and our modern travellers the confidence, the fading
confidence, of

the Turks.

-., Al Jannabi (apud Gagnier, torn. 2. p. 9.) allows him seventy or eighty horse;  
and on two other occasions prior to the battle of Ohud, he enlists a body of
thirty

(p. 10.) and of five hundred Cp. 66.) troopers. Yet the Mussulmans, in the
field of

Oimd, had no more than two horses, according to the better sense of Abulfeda.
(in

\ it. Mohamrn. p. 31. p. 65.) In the Stony province, the camels were numerous;

but the horse appears to have been less common than in tie Happy or the Daert

Arabia.

