198 ROMAN EMPIRE.

mouth of the Tiber.' When the kings were banished,

the republic reposed on the firm basis which had been

founded by their wisdom and virtue. Their perpetual

jurisdiction was divided between two annual magis­

trates; the senate continued to exercise the powers of

administration and counsel; and the legislative autho­

rity was distributed in the assemblies of th.e people, by

a well-proportioned scale of property and service. Ig­

norant of the arts of luxury, the primitive Romans had

improved the science of government and war: the will

of the community was absolute; the rights of indivi­

duals were saored; one hundred and thirty thousand

citizens were armed for defence or conquest; and a

band of robbers and outlaws was moulded into a na­

tion, deserving of freedom, and ambitious of glory."

When the sovereignty of the'' Greek emperors was ex­

tinguished, the ruins of Rome presented the sad image

of depopulation and decay; her slavery was a habit,

her liberty an accident; the effect of superstition, and

the object of her own amazement and terror. The last

vestige of the substance, or even the forms, of the con­

stitution, was obliterated from the practice and memory

of the Romans; and they were devoid of knowledge,

or virtue, again to build the fabric of a common wealth.

Their scanty remnant, the offspring of slaves and stran­

gers, was despicable in the eyes of the victorious bar­

barians. As often as the Franks or Lombards expressed

their most bitter contempt of a foe, they called him a

Roman; and in this name (says the bishop Liutprand)

we include whatever is base, whatever is cowardly, what­

ever is perfidious, the extremes of avarice and luxury,

and every vice that can prostitute the dignity of human

1 I have traced the Roman datchy according to the maps, and the maps accord­

ing to the excellent dissertation of father Barott i. (de Chorographia Italia:
Medii

Xvi, sect. 20. p. 216—«32.) Yet I mast nicely observe, that Viterbo is of Lom­

bard foundation, (p. 211.) and that Terracina was usurped by the Greeks.

- On the extent, population, &c. of the Roman kingdom, the reader may pe­  
ruse, with pleasure, the Discaurs PreHminaire to the Republique Romaine of M.

du Beaufort, (torn. 1.) who will not be accused of too much credulity for the
early

ages of Rome.

