CHAP. LII. '.OS

from Persia to Greece. The queen (he spoke of Irene)

considered you as a rook and herself a pawn. That

pusillanimous female submitted to pay a tribute, the

double of which she ought to have exacted from the bar­

barians. Restore therefwe the fruits of your injustice,

or abide the determination of the sword. At these words

the ambassadors cast a bundle of swords before the

foot of the throne. The caliph smiled at the menace,

and drawing his scimitar, samsamah, a weapon of his­

toric or fabulous renown, he cut asunder the feeble arms

of the Greeks, without turning the edge, or endangering

the tempe'r, of his blade. He then dictated an epistle

of tremendous brevity: In the name of the most mer­

ciful God, Haran al Rashid, commander of the faithful,

to Nicephorus, the Roman dog. I have read thy letter,

O thou son of an unbelieving mother. Thou shall not

hear, thou shalt behold my reply. It was written in cha­

racters of blood and fire on the plains of Phrygia, and

the warlike celerity of the Arabs could only be checked

by the arts of deceit and the show of repentance. The

triumphant caliph retired, after the fatigues of the cam­

paign, to his favourite palace.of Racca on the Euphrates:;

but the distance of five hundred miles, and the inclemency

of the season, encouraged his adversary to violate the

peace. Nicephorus was astonished by the bold and

rapid march of the commander of the faithful, who re-

passed in the depth of winter, the snows of mount Taurus:

his stratagems of policy and war were exhausted; and

the perfidious Greek escaped with three wounds from a

field of battle overspread with forty thousand of his sub­

jects. Yet the emperor was ashamed of submission, and

the caliph was resolved on victory. One hundred and

thirty-five thousand regular soldiers received pay, and

t For the situstion of Racea, the old Nicephorium, consult d'Anville. (L'Ea-

phrate et le Tigre, p. 24—27.) The Arabian Nights represent Harun al Rashid as

almost stationary in Bagdad. He respected the royal seat of the Abbassides,
buttho

.vices of the inhabitants had driven hiro from the city. (Abulfed. Anna), p.
167.)

