CHAP. XLIX. 221

and the judges of his innocence; and it was not with­

out reluctance, that the conqueror of the Saxons delayed

till the ensuing year the personal discharge of this

pious office. In his fourth and last pilgrimage, he was

received at Rome with the due honours of king and

patrician: Leo was permitted to purge himself by oath

of the crimes imputed to his charge; his enemies were

silenced, and the sacrilegious attempt against his life was

punished by the mild and insufficient penalty of exile.

On the festival of Christmas, the last year of the eighth

century, Charlemagne appeared in the church of St.

Peter; and, to gratify the vanity of Rome, he had ex­

changed the simple dress of his country for the habit

of a patrician/ After the celebration of the holy mys­

teries, Leo suddenly placed a precious crown on his

head," and the dome resounded with the acclamations

of the people,—Long life and victory to Charles, the

most pious Augustw, crowned by God the great and pa­

cific emperor of the Romans! The head and body of

Charlemagne were consecrated by the royal unction:

after the example of the Caesars he was saluted or

adored by the pontiff; his coronation-oath represents a

promise to maintain the faith and privileges of the

church; and the first-fruits were paid in his rich offer­

ings to the shrine of the apostle. In his familiar con­

versation, the emperor protested his ignorance of the

intentions of Leo, which he would have disappointed

by his absence on that memorable day. But the pre­

parations of the ceremony must have disclosed the

secret; and the journey of Charlemagne reveals his

knowledge and expectation; he had acknowledged that

> Twice, at I!»' request of Hadrian and Leo, he appeared at Rome—long;'i
tunicft et

chlauivdc amictus, et calceamentisquoque Romano more forniatis. Eginhard(c.
23.

109—113.) describes, like Suetonius, the simplicity of his dress, so popular
in the

nation; that when Charles the Bald returned to France in a foreign habit, the
patri­

otic dogs barked at the apostate. (Gaillard, Vie de Charlemagne, torn. 4. p.
109.)

» See Ana>tasius(p. 199.)and Eginhard. (c. 28. p. 124—128.) The unction is

mentioned by Theophanes, (p. 399.) the oath by Sigonius (from the Ordo
Romanus),

and the pope's adoration more antiquorum pnncipum, by the Annales Bertiniani.

(Script. Murator. torn. ?. pan 2. p. 505.)

