154 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the limits of the empire were enlarged in Europe and

Asia; and the Comnenian sceptre was transmitted to

his children of the third and fourth generation. Yet

the difficulties of the times betrayed some defects in his

character, and have exposed his memory to some just

or ungenerous reproach. The reader may possibly smile

at the lavish praise which his daughter so often bestows

on a flying hero: the weakness or prudence of his situa­

tion might be mistaken for a want of personal courage;

and his political arts are branded by the Latins with the

names of deceit and dissimulation. The increase of the

male and female branches of his family adorned the

throne and secured the succession: but their princely

luxury and pride offended the patricians, exhausted the

revenue, and insulted the misery of the people. Anna

is a faithful witness that his happiness was destroyed,

and his health was broken, by the cares of a public life:

the patience of Constantinople was fatigued by the length

and severity of his reign; and before Alexius expired,

he had lost the love and reverence of his subjects. The

clergy could not forgive his application of the sacred

riches to the defence of the state; but they applauded

his theological learning and ardent zeal for the orthodox

faith, which he defended with his tongue, his pen, and

his sword. His character was degraded by the supersti­

tion of the Greeks: and the same inconsistent principle

of human nature enjoined the emperor to found a hos­

pital for the poor and infirm, and to direct the execu­

tion of a heretic, who was burnt alive in the square of

St. Sophia. Even the sincerity of his moral and reli­

gious virtues was suspected by the persons who had

passed their lives in his familiar confidence. In his last

hours, when he was pressed by his wife Irene to alter

the succession, he raised his head, and breathed a pious

ejaculation on the vanity of this world. The indignant

reply of the empress may be inscribed as an epitaph on

his tomb, You die as you have lived—A HYPOCRITE!

