454 ROMAN EMPIRE.

/ know his features (he exclaimed with indignation);

I assert his innocence; and I imprecate the same, ajuster,

fate against the authors of his death. The age and

despair of Musa raised him above the power of kings;

and he expired at Mecca of the anguish of a broken

heart. His rival was more favourably treated: his ser­

vices were forgiven; and Tarik was permitted to mingle

with the crowd of slaves.0 I am ignorant whether

count Julian was rewarded with the death which he

deserved indeed, though not from the hands of the Sa­

racens; but the tale of their ingratitude to the sons of

Witizais disproved by the most unquestionable evidence.

The two royal youths were reinstated in the private pa­

trimony of their father; but on the decease of Elba the

elder, his daughter was unjustly despoiled of her portion

by the violence of her uncle Sigebut. The Gothic maid

pleaded her cause before the caliph Hasheim, and

obtained the restitution of her inheritance; but she was

given in marriage to a noble Arabian, and their two

sons, Isaac and Ibrahim, were received in Spain with

the consideration that was due to their origin and riches.

Prosperity ^- prov™ce is assimilated to the victorious

of Spain state by the introduction of strangers and the

under the . . .' ~~! , .

Arabs, imitative spirit of the natives; and Spain, which

had been successively tinctured with Punic, and Roman,

and Gothic, blood, imbibed, in a few generations, the

name and manners of the Arabs. The first conquerors,

and the twenty successive lieutenants of the caliphs,

were attended by a numerous train of civil and military

followers, who preferred a distant fortune to a narrow

home: the private and public interest was promoted by

the establishment of faithful colonies; and the cities of

Spain were proud to commemorate the tribe or country

e I much regret our loss, or my ignorance, of two Arabic works of the serenta

century, a life of Musa, and a poem on the exploits of Tarik. Of these
authentic

pieces, the former was composed by a grandson of Musa, who had escaped from

the massacre of his kindred; the latter by the vizier of the first Abdah-auaua

caliph of Spain, who might have conversed with some of the veterans of the
con­

queror. ( Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. '1. p. 3t;. 139.)

