308 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Mahomet, his kinsmen, and his disciples; and pledged

themselves to each other by a mutual oath of fidelity.

They promised in the name of the city, that if he should

be banished, they would receive him as a confederate,

obey him as a leader, and defend him to the last extre­

mity, like their wives and children. But if you are re­

called by your country (they asked with a flattering an­

xiety), will you not abandon your new allies?—.All things

(replied Mahomet with a smile) are now common between

us; .your blood is as my blood, your ruin as my ruin. We

are bound to each other by the ties of honour and interest.

I am your friend, and the enemy of your foes.—But if

we are killed in your service, what (exclaimed the depu­

ties of Medina) will be our reward?—Paradise, replied

the prophet. Stretch forth thy hand. He stretched it

forth, and they reiterated the oath of allegiance and

fidelity. Their treaty was ratified by the people, who

unanimously embraced the profession of Islam; they re­

joiced in the exile of the apostle, but they trembled

for his safety, and impatiently expected his arrival.

After a perilous and rapid journey along the sea-coast,

he halted at Koba, two miles from the city, and made

his public entry into Medina, sixteen days after his

flight from Mecca. Five hundred of the citizens ad­

vanced to meet him: he was hailed with acclamations

of loyalty and devotion; Mahomet was mounted on a

she-camel, an umbrella shaded his head, and a turban

was unfurled before him to supply the deficiency of a

standard. His bravest disciples, who had been scattered

by the storm, assembled round his person; and the equal,

though various, merit of the Moslems was distinguished

by the names of Mohagerians and Ansars, the fugitives

of Mecca, and the auxiliaries of Medina. To eradi­

cate the sfeeds of jealousy, Mahomet judiciously coupled

his principal followers with the rights and obligations

of brethren; and when Al i found himself without a

peer, the prophet tenderly declared, that he would be

