CHAP. XLVIII. 123

ments in which he should have blushed to excel. Yet

the studies of Nero in music and poetry, betrayed some

symptoms of a liberal taste: the more ignoble arts of

the son of Theophilus were confined to the chariot-race

of the hippodrome. The four factions which had agi­

tated the peace, still amused the idleness, of the capi­

tal: for himself, the emperor assumed the blue livery;

the three rival colours were distributed to his favour­

ites, and in the vile, though eager contention, he forgot

the dignity of his person, and the safety of his dominions.

He silenced the messenger of an invasion, who presumed

to divert his attention in the most critical moment of the

race; and by his command, the importunate beacons

were extinguished, that too frequently spread the alarm

from Tarsus to Constantinople. The most skilful cha­

rioteers obtained the first place in his confidence and

esteem; their merit was profusely rewarded: the em­

peror feasted in their houses, and presented their

children at the baptismal font; and while he applaud­

ed his own popularity, he affected to blame the cold and

stately reserve of his predecessors. The unnatural lusts

which had degraded even the manhood of Nero, were

banished from the world; yet the strength of Michael

was consumed by the indulgence of love and intemper­

ance. In his midnight revels, when his passions were

inflamed by wine, he was provoked to issue the most

sanguinary commands; and if any feelings of humanity

were left, he was reduced, with the return of sense, to

approve the salutary disobedience of his servants. But

the most extraordinary feature in the character of Mi­

chael, is the profane mockery of the religion of his

country. The superstition of the Greeks might indeed

excite the smile of a philosopher: but his smile would

have been rational and temperate, and he must have

condemned the ignorant folly of a youth who insulted

the objects of public veneration. A buffoon of the court

was invested in the robes of the patriarch; the twelve

