CHAP. XLVII. 9

world, he laboured to reconcile the Gnostic with the

Ebionite, by confessing in the same Messiah the super­

natural union of a man and a God: and this mystic

doctrine was adopted with many fanciful improvements

by Carpocrates, Basilides, and Valentine,1" the heretics

of the Egyptian school. In their eyes, JESUS of Nazareth

was a mere mortal, the legitimate son of Joseph and

Mary; but he was the best and wisest of the. human

race, selected as the worthy instrument to restore upon

earth the worship of the true and supreme Deity.

When he was baptized in the Jordan, the CHRIST, the

first of the aeons, the Son of God himself, descended on

Jesus in the form of a dove, to inhabit his mind, and di­

rect his actions during the allotted period of his ministry.

When the Messiah was delivered into the hands of the

Jews, the Christ, an immortal and impassible being, for­

sook his earthly tabernacle, flew back to the pleroma or

world of spirits, and left the solitary Jesus to suffer, to

complain, and to expire. But the justice and generosity

of such a desertion are strongly questionable; and the

fate of an innocent martyr, at first impelled, and at length

abandoned by his divine companion, might provoke the

pity and indignation of the profane. Their murmurs

were variously silenced by the sectaries who espoused

and modified the double system of Cerinthus. It was

alleged, that when Jesus was nailed to the cross, he

was endowed with a miraculous apathy of mind and

body, which rendered him insensible of his apparent

sufferings. It was affirmed, that these momentary,

though real pangs, would be abundantly repaid by the

temporal reign of a thousand years, reserved for the

Messiah in his kingdom of the New Jerusalem. It

was insinuated, that if he suffered, he deserved to suf­

v The Valentinians embraced a complex, and almost incoherent systern.—1.

Both Christ and Jesus were aeons, though of different degrees; the one acting
as

the rational soul, the other as the divine spirit of the Saviour. 2. At the
time of

the passion, they both retired, and left only a sensitive soul and a human
body.

3. Even that body was etherial and perhaps apparent.—Such are the laborious

conclusions of Mosheirn. But I much doubt whether the Latin translator under­

stood Iren&us, and whether Irenaeus and the Valentinians understood
themselves.

