CHAP. XLVII. 61

to the nations beyond the Tigris. The first indelible

lesson of Ibas, bishop of Edessa, taught them to exe­

crate the Egyptians, who, in the synod of Ephesus,

had impiously confounded the two natures of Christ.

The flight of the masters and scholars, who were twice

expelled from the Athens of Syria, dispersed a crowd

of missionaries, inflamed by the double zeal of religion

and revenge. And the rigid unity of the Monophy-

sites, who, under the reigns of Zeno and Anastasius,

had invaded the thrones of the east, provoked their an­

tagonists, in a land of freedom, to avow a moral, ra­

ther than a physical, union of the two persons of Christ.

Since the first preaching of the gospel, the Sasanian

kings beheld, with an eye of suspicion, a race of aliens

and apostates, who had embraced the religion, and

who might favour the cause, of the hereditary foes of

their country. The royal edicts had often prohibited

their dangerous correspondence with the Syrian clergy;

the progress of the schism was grateful to the jealous

pride of Perozes; and he listened to the eloquence of

an artful prelate, who painted Nestorius as the friend

of Persia, and urged him to secure the fidelity of his

Christian subjects, by granting a just preference to the

victims and enemies of the Roman tyrant. The Nes-

torians composed a large majority of the clergy and

people: they were encouraged by the smile, and armed

with the sword, of despotism; yet many of their weaker

brethren were startled at the thought of breaking loose

from the communion of the Christian world, and the

blood of seven thousand seven hundred Monophysites

or Catholics, confirmed the uniformity of faith and dis-

s- ciplinc in the churches of Persia.8 Their ec-

^T" desiastical institutions are distinguished by a

*;°> &c. liberal principle of reason, or at least of policy:  
the austerity of the cloister was relaxed and gradually

A dissertation on the state of the Nestorians has swelled in the hands of As-

semanni to a folio volume of nine hundred and fifty pages, and his learned re­

searches are digested in the most lucid order. Besides this fourth volume of
the .

