CHAP. XLYIII. J07

cured by a supply., of five hundred sheep to the imperial

camp. His first service was in the guards of Justinian,

where he soon attracted the notice, and, by degrees, the

jealousy, of the tyrant. His valour and dexterity were

conspicuous in the Colchian war: from Anastasius he

received the command of the Anatolian legions, and by

the suffrage of the soldiers he was raised to the empire,

with the general applause of the Roman world. II. In

this dangerous'elevation, Leo III. supported himself

against the envy of his equals, the discontent of a power­

ful faction, and the assaults of his foreign and domestic

enemies. The Catholics, who accuse his religious inno­

vations, are obliged toconfess^that they were undertaken

with temper, and conducted with firmness. Their silence

respects the wisdom of his administration and the purity

of his .manners. After a reign of twenty-four year*, he

peaceably expired in the palace of Constantinople; and

the purple which he had acquired, was transmitted by

the right of inheritance to the third generation.

Constan- ^n tne ^onS reign of thirty-four years, the son

tinev.co- and successor of Leo. Constantine V. surnamed

pronymus, .

A.D.7*i.Copronymus, attacked with Jess temperate zeal

the images or idols of the church. Their vo­

taries have exhausted the bitterness of religious gall, in

their portrait of this spotted panther, this antichrist,

this flying dragon of the serpent's seed, who surpassed

the vices of Elagabalus and Nero. His reign was a long

butchery of whatever was most noble, or holy, or inno­

cent, in his empire. In person, the emperor assist­

ed at the execution of his victims, surveyed their ago­

nies, listened to their groans, and indulged, without

satiating his appetite for blood: a plate of noses was

accepted as a grateful offering, and his domestics were

often scourged or mutilated by the royal hand. His

surname was derived from his pollution of his baptismal

font. The infant might be excused; but the manly

pleasures of Copronymus degraded him below the level

