336 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Jesus, and Fatima, the best beloved of his daughters.

Was she not old? (said Ayesha, with the insolence of a

blooming beauty) has not God given you a better in her

place?—No, by God (said Mahomet, with an effusion of

honest .gratitude), there never can be a better! she be­

lieved in me, when men despised me: she relieved my wants,

when I was poor and persecuted by the world.A

In ^e largest indulgence of polygamy, the

founder of a religion and empire might aspire to

multiply the chances of a numerous posterity and a lineal

succession. The hopes of Mahomet were fatally disap­

pointed. The virgin Ayesha, and his ten widows of ma­

ture age and approved fertility, were barren in his potent

embraces. The four sons of Cadijah died in their in­

fancy. Mary, his Egyptian concubine, was endeared to

him by the birth of Ibrahim. At the end of fifteen

months the prophet wept over his grave; but he sus­

tained with firmness the raillery of his enemies, and

checked the adulation or credulity of the Moslems, by

the assurance that an eclipse of the sun was not occa­

sioned by the death of the infant. Cadijah had likewise

given him four daughters, who were married to the most

faithful of his disciples: the three eldest died before their

father; but Fatima, who possessed his confidence and

love, became the wife of her cousin Ali, and the mother

of an illustrious progeny. The merit and misfortunes of

Ali and his descendants will lead me to anticipate, in this

place, the series of the Saracen caliphs, a title which de­

scribes the commanders of the faithful as the vicars and

successors of the apostle of God.e

The birth, the alliance, the character, of Ali, which

* Abulfedain Vit. Moharn. p. 12,13. 16,17. cum notis Gagnier.

e This outline of the Arabian history is drawn from the Bibliotheque Orientate

of d'Herbelot; (under the names of Aboubecre, Omar, Olhman, Ati, &c.) from the

Annals of Abulfeda, Abulpharagius, and Elmacin (under the proper years of the

Hegira), and especially from Ockley's History of the Saracens (vol. 1. p.
1—10.

Hi—122.229. l!49. 3<::3—o7t. 378—391. and almost the whole of the second vo­

lume). Yet we should weigh with caution the traditions of the hostile sects; a

stream which becomes still more muddy as it flows farther from the source. Sir

John Chardin has too faithfullycopied the fables and errors of the modem
Persians.

(Voyages, torn. 2. p. 233—250, &c.)

