CHAP. I A. 465

of the church, the votes of a senate, or the memory of a

free constitution. The authority of the companions of

Mahomet expired with their lives; and the chiefs or

emirs of the Arabian tribes left behind, in the desert, the

spirit of equality and independence. The regal and

sacerdotal characters were united in the successors of

Mahomet; and if the Koran was the rule of their actions,

they were the supreme judges and interpreters of that

divine book. They reigned by the right of conquest

over the nations of the east, to whom the name of liberty

was unknown, and who were accustomed to applaud in

their tyrants the acts of violence and severity that were

exercised at their own expense. Under the last of the

Ommiades, the Arabian empire extended two hundred

days' journey from east to west, from the confines of Tar-

tary and India to the shores of the Atlantic ocean. And

if we retrench the sleeve of the robe, as it is styled by

their writers, the long and narrow province of Africa, the

solid and compact dominion from Fargana to Aden, from

Tarsus to Surat, will spread on every side to the measure

of four or five months of the march of a caravan.1" We

should vainly seek the indissoluble union and easy obe足

dience that pervaded the government of Augustus and

the Antonines: but the progress of the Mahometan reli足

gion diffused over this ample space a general resem足

blance of manners and opinions. The language and laws

of the Koran were studied with equal devotion at Samar-

cand and Seville: the Moor and the Indian embraced

as countrymen and brothers in the pilgrimage of Mecca;

and the Arabian language was adopted as the popular

idiom in all the provinces to the westward of the Tigris."

'" See the article Eslamiah (as we say Christendom) in the Bibliotheque
Orientate

(p. 335.) This chart of the Mahometan world is suited by the author, Ebn
Alwardi,

to the year of the Hegira 385. (A. D. 995.) Since that time the losses in
Spain have

been overbalanced by the conquests in India, Tartary, and the European Turkey.

"The Arabic of the Koran .is taught asa dead language in the college of Mecca.

By the Danish traveller, this ancient idiom is compared to the Latin; the
vulgar

tongue of Hejaz and Yemen to the Italian; and the Arabian dialects of Syria,

Egypt, Africa, &c. to the Proven9al, Spanish, and Portuguese. (Niebuhr,
Descrip足

tion de I'Arabie, p. 74, &c.)

VOL. VI. 2 H

