18 ROMAN EMPIRE.

by seasonable gifts; but the murder of Hypatia has im­

printed an indelible stain on the character and religion

of Cyril of Alexandria.11

Nestorius, Superstition, perhaps, would more gently ex-

ofConstan- piate the blood of a virgin, than the banish-

Anrj!428, ment of a samt , and Cyril had accompanied his

April 10. uncle to the iniquitous synod of the oak. When

the memory of Chrysostom was restored and conse­

crated, the nephew of Theophilus, at the head of a dying

faction, still maintained the justice of his sentence; nor

was it till after a tedious delay, and an obstinate resist­

ance, that he yielded to the consentof the Catholic world.*

His enmity to the Byzantine pontiffsf was a sense of in­

terest, not a sally of passion: he envied their fortunate

station in the sunshine of the imperial court; and he

dreaded their upstart ambition, which oppressed the

metropolitans of Europe and Asia, invaded the provinces

of Antioch and Alexandria, and measured their diocess

by the limits of the empire. The long moderation of

Atticus, the mild usurper of the throne of Chrysostom,

suspended the animosities of the eastern patriarchs; but

Cyril was at length awakened by the exaltation of a ri­

val more worthy of his esteem and hatred. After the

short and troubled reign of Sisinnius bishop of Constan­

tinople, the factions of the clergy and people were ap­

peased by the choice of the emperor, who, on this occa­

sion, consulted the voice of fame, and invited the merit

of a stranger. Nestorius,g a native of Germanicia, and

a monk of Antioch, was recommended by the austerity

* These exploits of St. Cyril are recorded by Socrates; (lib. 7. c. 13—15.) and  
the most reluctant bigotry ia compelled to copy an historian who coolly styles
the

murderers of Hypatia avfyi; TO tycmpa tvS>tf/t.a. At the mention of that
injured name,

I am pleased to observe a blush even on the cheek of Baronius. (A. D.415, no.
48.)

1 He was deaf to the entreaties of Atticus of Constantinople, and of Isidore
of

Pelusium, and yielded only (if we may believe Nicephoms, lib. 14. c. 18.) to
the

personal intercession of the Virgin. Yet in his last years he still muttered,
that

John Chrysostom had been justly condemned. (Tillemont, Mern. Eccles. torn. 14.

p. 278—282. Baronius, Annal. Eccles. A. D. -11','. no. 46—64.)

'See their characters in the History of Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 25—28.) their
power

and pretensions, in the huge compilation of Thomassin. (Discipline de
1'Eglise,

torn. 1. p. 80—91.)

* His elevation and conduct are described by Socrates; (lib. 7. c. 29—3I.) and  
Marcellinus seems to have applied the loquentiae satis, sapientiae parum, of
Sallust.

