84 ROMAN EMPIRE.

to solicit a colony of smiths, carpenters, tilers, masons,

printers, surgeons, and physicians, for the use of their

country. But the public danger soon called for the in­

stant and effectual aid of arms and soldiers to defend an

unwarlike people from the barbarians who ravaged the

inland country, and the Turks and Arabs who advanced

from the sea-coast in more formidable array. Ethiopia

was saved by four hundred and fifty Portuguese, who

displayed in the field the native valour of Europeans,

and the artificial powers of the musket and cannon. In

a moment of terror, the emperor had promised to recon­

cile himself and his subjects to the Catholic faith; a

Latin patriarch represented the supremacy of the pope ;u

the empire, enlarged in a tenfold proportion, was sup­

posed to contain more gold than the mines of America;

and the wildest hopes of avarice and zeal were built on

the willing submission of the Christians of Africa.

„. . . But the vows which pain had extorted, were

the Jesuits, forsworn on the return of health. The Abys-

sinians still adhered with unshaken constancy

to the Monophysite faith; their languid belief was in­

flamed by the exercise of dispute; they branded the

Latins with the names of Arians and Nestorians, and

imputed the adoration of four gods to those who sepa­

rated the two natures of Christ. Fremona, a place of

worship, or rather of exile, was assigned to the Jesuit

missionaries. Their skill in the liberal and mechanic

arts, their theological learning, and the decency of

their manners, inspired a barren esteem; but they were

not endowed with the gift of miracles," and they vainly

solicited a reinforcement of European troops. The

"John Bermudez, whose relation, printed at Lisbon, 1569, was translated into

English by Purchat), (Pilgrims, lib. 7. c. 7. p. 1149, &c.) and from thence
into

French )»y La Croze, (Christianisme d'.£thiope, p. 9t—165.) The piece is
curious;,

bat the author may be suspected of deceiving Abyssinia, Rome, and Portugal.

His title to the rank of patriarch is dark and doubtful. (Ludolph. Comment,
no.

101. p. 473.)

* Religio Romana .... nee precibus patrum nee miraculis ab ipsis editis snf-  
fultiebatur, is the uncontradicted assurance of the devout emperor Susneus to
his

patriarch Mendez; (Ludolpb. Comment, no. 126. |,. 529.) and such assurances,

should be preciously kept, as an antidote against any marvellous legends.

