98 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the corpse of their lifeless emperor. The troops of

Sicily invested with the purple an obscure youth,

whose inimitable beauty eluded, and it might easily

elude, the declining art of the painters and sculptors of

the age.

Constan- Constans had left in the Byzantipe palace

tine iv. three sons, the eldest of whom had been clothed

Pogonatus,

A. i). 668, in his infancy with the purple. When the fa-

1 r'ther summoned them to attend his person in

Sicily, these precious hostages were detained by the

Greeks, and a firm refusal informed him that they were

the children of the state. The news of his murder was

conveyed with almost supernatural speed from Syracuse

to Constantinople; and Constantine, the eldest of his

sons, inherited his throne without being the heir of the

public hatred. His subjects contributed, with zeal and

alacrity, to chastise the guilt and presumption of a pro足

vince which had usurped the rights of the senate and

people: the young emperor sailed from the Hellespont

with a powerful fleet; and the legions of Rome and

Carthage were assembled under his standard in the har足

bour of Syracuse. The defeat of the Sicilian tyrant was

easy, his punishment just, and his beauteous head was

exposed in the hippodrome: but I cannot applaud the

clemency of a prince, who, among a crowd of victims,

condemned the son of a patrician, for deploring with

some bitterness the execution of a virtuous father. The

youth was castrated; he survived the operation, and

the memory of this indecent cruelty is preserved by the

elevation of Germanus to the rank of a patriarch and

saint. After pouring this bloody libation on his father's

tomb, Constantine returned to his capital, and the growth

of his young beard during the Sicilian voyage, was an足

nounced by the familiar surname of Pogonatus, to the

Grecian world. But his reign, like that of his prede足

cessor, was stained with fraternal discord. On his two

brothers, Heraclius and Tiberius, he had bestowed the

