326 ROMAN EMPIRE.

terprise.' The Moslems were discouraged: they alleged

the want of money, or horses, or provisions; die season

of harvest, and the intolerable heat of the summer: Hell

is much hotter, said the indignant prophet. He dis­

dained to compel their service; but on his return he ad­

monished the most guilty, by an excommunication of

fifty days. Their desertion enhanced the merit of Abu-

beker, Othman, and the faithful companions who devoted

their lives and fortunes; and Mahomet displayed his ban­

ner at the head of ten thousand horse and twenty thou­

sand foot. Painful indeed was the distress of the march:

lassitude and thirst were aggravated by the scorching

and pestilential winds of the desert: ten men rode by

turns on the same camel; and they were reduced to the

shameful necessity of drinking the water from the belly

of that useful animal. In the midway, ten days' journey

from Medina and Damascus, they reposed near the grove

and fountain of Tabuc. Beyond that place Mahomet

declined the prosecution of the war: he declared him­

self satisfied with the peaceful intentions; he was more

probably daunted by the martial array of the emperor

of the east. But the active and intrepid Caled spread

around the terror of his name; and the prophet received

the submission of the tribes and cities from the Euphrates

to Ailah, at the head of the Red sea. To his Christian

subjects, Mahomet readily granted the security of their

persons, the freedom of their trade, the property of their

goods, and the toleration of their worship.11 The weak­

'The expedition to Tabuc is recorded by our ordinary historians, Abulfed*
(Vit.

Moharn. p. 123—12T.) and Gagnier; (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 147—163.)

Imt we have the advantage of appealing to the original evidence of the K oran,

(c. 9. p. 154. 165.) with Sale's learned and rational notes.

t The Dij'lomu tecurilatit Aitemibut, is attested by Ahmed Ben Joseph, ami tb0

author Li&ri Sfleudorum; (Gagnier, Not. ad Abulfedam, p. 125.) but Abulfeda

himself, as well as Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 11-.; though he own.-,
Mahomet's

regard for the Christians, (p. I3-) only mentions peace and tribute. In the
\t-ar

1630, Sionlta published at raris the text and version of Mahomet's patent in
fa­

vour of tin- Christiana, which was admitted; and reprobated by the opposite
twta

of Salmasius andGrotius. (Bayle, MAUoIIET, Kern. AA.) Hottinger doubts of its

authenticity; (Hist. Orient* p. 237.) Renaudot urges the content of the Maho­

metans. - (Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 169.)butMofeheim(Hist.Ecotes.p.
i44.)ahe»»

the futility of their opinion, and inclines to believe it spurious. Yet
Abulpharagiu*

