416 ROMAN EMPIRE.

multitudes. Had not the Nile afforded a safe and ready

conveyance to the sea, not an individual could have es­

caped, who, by birth, or language, or office, or religion,

was connected with their odious name.

siege and By tne retreat of the Greeks from the pro-

vmces of Upper Egypt, a considerable force was

collected in the island of Delta; the natural and

artificial channels of the Nile afforded a succession of

strong and defensible posts; and the road to Alexandria

was laboriously cleared by the victory of the Saracens

in two-and-twenty days of general or partial combat.

In their annals of conquest, the siege of Alexandria' is

perhaps the most arduous and important enterprise. The

first trading city in the world was abundantly reple­

nished with the means of subsistence and defence. Her

numerous inhabitants fought for the dearest of human

rights, religion and property; and the enmity of the

natives seemed to exclude them from the common benefit

of peace and toleration. The sea was continually open;

and if Heraclius had been awake to the public distress,

fresh armies of Romans and barbarians might have been

poured into the harbour to save the second capital of

the empire. A circumference of ten miles would have

scattered the forces of the Greeks, and favoured the

stratagems of an active enemy; but the two sides of an

oblong square were covered by the sea and the lake

Maraeotis, and each of the narrow ends exposed a front

of no more than ten furlongs. The efforts of the Arabs

were not inadequate to the difficulty of the attempt and

the value of the prize. From the throne of Medina,

the eyes of Omar were fixed on the camp and city: hi&

voice excited to arms the Arabian tribes and the veterans

of Syria; and the merit of a holy war was recommended

* The local description of Alexandria it perfectly ascertained by the master-hand  
of tin- 6rst of geographers; (d'Anville, Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 52—63.) bat
we

may borrow the eyes of the modern travellers, more especially of Thevenot,

'Voyage au Levant, part 1. p. 381—395) Pocock, (vol. 1.p.2—13.) and Niebohr.

Voyage en Arable, torn. 1. p, 34—43.) Of the two modern rivals, Savory and

"olney, the one may amuse, the other will instruct.

TO

8

V

