CHAP. XLVII. 37

had been respectfully, perhaps sincerely, subscribed:

but they protested, in two successive debates, that it was

neither expedient nor lawful to transgress the sacred

landmarks which had been fixed at Nice, Constanti­

nople, and Ephesus, according to the rule of Scripture

and tradition. At length they yielded to the impor­

tunities of their masters; but their infallible decree, after

it had been ratified with deliberate votes and vehement

acclamations, was overturned in the next session by the

opposition of the legates and their oriental friends. It

was in vain that a multitude of episcopal voices repeated

in chorus, The definition of the fathers is orthodox and

immutable! The heretics are now discovered! Anathema

to the Nestorians! Let them depart from the synod! Let

them repair to Rome /" The legates threatened, the

emperor was absolute, and a committee of eighteen bi­

shops prepared a new decree, which was imposed on

the reluctant assembly. In the name of the fourth ge­

neral council, the Christ in one person, but in two na­

tures, was announced to the Catholic world: an invi­

sible line was drawn between the heresy of Apollinaris

and the faith of St. Cyril; and the road to paradise,

a bridge as sharp as a razor, was suspended over the

abyss by the master-hand of the theological artist.

During ten centuries of blindness and servitude, Europe

received her religious opinions from the oracle of the

Vatican; and the same doctrine, already varnished with

the rust of antiquity, was admitted without dispute into

the creed of the reformers, who disclaimed the supremacy

of the Roman pontiff. The synod of Chalcedon still tri­

umphs in the Protestant churches; but the ferment of

controversy.has subsided, and the most pious Christians

of the present day are ignorant or careless of their own

belief concerning the mystery of the incarnation.

* E0»mr i i ift nfvniru * amfxffuS* , . . u arnXiyorric if.anpoi yntmai, o'  
xmXiycmc Nitrrtfiaw ura, 01 airiMywrtj lit Po|unr iuriXfW». (Concil. torn. 4.
p.

1449.) Evagrius and Liberatus present only the placid face of the synod, and

discreetly sink- over those embers suppoeitos cinere dole-so.

