CHAP. XLVII. 83

4

siriian priesthood; the patriarch supplies each vacancy

with an Egyptian monk; and the character of a stranger

appears more venerable in the eyes of the people, less

dangerous in those of the monarch. In the sixth cen­

tury, when the schism of Egypt was confirmed, the rival

chiefs, with their patrons, Justinian and Theodora, strove

to outstrip each other in the conquest of a remote and

independent province. The industry of the ernpres¥

was again victorious, and the pious Theodora has esta­

blished in that sequestered church the faith and discipline

of the Jacobites.* Encompassed on all sides by the ene­

mies of their religion, the ^Ethiopians slept near a thou­

sand years, forgetful of the world, by whom they were

The Porto- forgotten. They were awakened by the Portu-

Ab^sinia, guese, who, turning the southern promontory

—15505*5 o^ Africa, appeared in India and the Red sea,

&c. as if they had descended through the air from a

distant planet. In the first moments of their interview,

the subjects of Rome and Alexandria observed the re­

semblance, rather than the difference of their faith; and

each nation expected the most important benefits from

an alliance with their Christian brethren. In their

lonely situation, the ^Ethiopians had almost relapsed

into the savage life. Their vessels, which had traded to

Ceylon, scarcely presumed to navigate the rivers of

Africa; the ruins of Axume were deserted, the nation

was scattered in villages, and the emperor (a pompous

name) was content, both in peace and war, with the

moveable residence of a camp. Conscious of their own

indigence, the Abyssinians, had formed the rational pro­

ject of importing the arts and ingenuity of Europe ;* and

their ambassadors at Rome and Lisbon were instructed

• I know not why Assemannus (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 384.) should call in

question these probable missions of Theodora in to Nubia and /Ethiopia. The
slight

notices of Abyssinia till the year 1500 are supplied by Elenaudot(p.
336.341.381,

382. 405. 443, &c. 452. 456. 463. 475. 480. 511. 525. 559. 564.) from the
Coptic

writers. The mind of Ludolphus was a perfect blank.

1 Lndolph. Hint. ^Ethiop. lib. 4. c. 5. The most necessary arts are now
exercised

by the Jews, and the foreign trade is in the hands of the Armenians. What Gre­

gory principally admired and envied was the industry of Europe—artes et
opificia.

G 2

