134 ROMAN EMPIRE.

munity. The rumour of this domestic revolution ex­

cited a tumult in the city; but Porphyrogenitus alone,

the true and lawful emperor, was the object of the pub­

lic care; and the sons of Lecapenus were taught, by

tardy experience, that they had achieved a guilty and

perilous enterprise for the benefit of their rival. Their

sister Helena, the wife of Constantine, revealed, or sup­

posed, their treacherous design of assassinating her hus­

band at the royal banquet. His royal adherents were

alarmed; and the two usurpers were prevented, seized,

degraded from the purple, and embarked for the same

island and monastery where their father had been so

lately confined. Old Romanus met them on the beach

with a sarcastic smile, and, after a just reproach of their

folly and ingratitude, presented his imperial colleagues

with an equal share of his water and vegetable diet.

In the fortieth year of his reign, Constantine VII. ob­

tained the possession of the eastern world, which he

ruled, or seemed to rule, near fifteen years. But he

was devoid of that energy of character which could

emerge into a life of action and glory: and the studies

which had amused and dignified his leisure, were in­

compatible with the serious duties of a sovereign. The

emperor neglected the practice, to instruct his son Ro­

manus in the theory, of government; while he indulged

the habits of intemperance and sloth, he dropped the

reins of the administration into the hands of Helena

his wife; and, in the shifting scene of her favour and

caprice, each minister was regretted in the promotion

of a more worthless successor. Yet the birth and mis­

fortunes of Constantine had endeared him to the Greeks:

they excused his failings; they respected his learning,

his innocence, and charity, his love of justice; and the

ceremony of his funeral was mourned with the unfeign­

ed tears of his subjects. The body, according to an­

cient custom, lay in state in the vestibule of the palace;

and the civil and military officers, the patricians, the

