38 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Discord of Far different was the temper of the Greeks

theeast, anc[ Egyptians under the orthodox reigns of

451—482. Leo and Marcian. Those pious emperors en­

forced with arms and edicts the symbol of their faith ;r

aod it was declared by the conscience or honour of

five hundred bishops, that the decrees of the synod of

Chalcedon might be lawfully supported, even with

blood. The Catholics observed with satisfaction, that

the same synod was odious both to the Nestorians and

the Monophysites ;y but the Nestorians were less angry, or

less powerful, and the east was distracted by the obsti­

nate and sanguinary zeal of the Monophysites. Jerusa­

lem was occupied by an army of monks; in the name

of the one incarnate nature, they pillaged, they burnt,

they murdered; the sepulchre of Christ was defiled

with blood; and the gates of the city were guarded in

tumultuous rebellion against the troops of the emperor.

After the disgrace and exile of Dioscorus, the Egyp­

tians still regretted their spiritual father; and detested

the usurpation of his successor, who was introduced

by the fathers of Chalcedon. The throne of Proterius

was supported by a guard of two thousand soldiers; he

waged a five years' war against the people of Alexan­

dria; and, on the first intelligence of the death of Mar­

cian, he became the victim of their zeal. On the third

day before the festival of Easter, the patriarch was be­

sieged in the cathedral, and murdered in the baptis­

tery. The remains of his mangled corpse were deliver­

x See in the Appendix to the Acts of Cbalcedon, the confirmation of the synod
by

Marcian, (Concil. torn. 4. p. 1781.1783.) his letters to the monks of
Alexandria,

(p. 1791.) of Mount Sinai, (p. 1793.) of Jerusalem and Palestine, (p. 1798.)
his

laws against the Eutychians, (p. 1809. 1811. 1831.) the correspondence of Leo

with the provincial synods on the revolution of Alexandria, (p. 1835.1930.)

JPhotius(or rather the Eulogiusof Alexandria) confesses, in afine passage, the

specious colourof this double charge against Pope Leo and his synod of
Chalcedon.

(Bibliot. cod. 225. p. 768.) He waged a double war against the enemies of the

church, and wounded eitherfoe with the darts of his adversary—xaraXXuXoif B'Mn

THUS amvaXcu; ttnyarM. Against Nestorius he seemed to introduce the ?vyxy?it

of the Monophysites: against Eutyches he appeared to countenance the vgwranm

)iafega of the Nestorians. The apologist claims a charitable interpretation
for the

saints: if the same had been extended to the heretics, the sound of the
contro­

versy would have been lost in the air.

