316 ROMAN EMPIRE.

javelin; two of his teeth were shattered with a stone;

yet, in the midst of tumult and dismay, he reproached

the infidels with the murder of a prophet; and blessed

the friendly hand that stanched his blood, and conveyed

him to a place of safety. Seventy martyrs died for the

sins of the people; they fell, said the apostle, in pairs,

each brother embracing his lifeless companion:" their

bodies were mangled by the inhuman females of Mecca;

and the wife of Abu Sophian tasted the entrails of

Hamza, the uncle of Mahomet. They might applaud

their superstition and satiate their fury; but the Mus­

sulmans soon rallied in the field, and the Koreish wanted

strength or courage to undertake the siege of Medina.

The na- It was attacked the ensuing year by an army of

thTditch, ten thousand enemies; and this third expedition

A.D. 625. is variously named from the nations, which

marched under the banner of Abu Sophian, from the

ditch which was drawn before the city, and a camp of

three thousand Mussulmans. The prudence of Maho­

met declined a general engagement; the valour of Ali

was signalized in single combat; and the war was pro­

tracted twenty days, till the final separation of the con­

federates. A tempest of wind, rain, and hail, overturned

their tents; the private quarrels were fomented by an

insidious adversary; and the Koreish, deserted by their

allies, no longer hoped to subvert the throne, or to check

the conquests, of their invincible exile.'

Mahomet The choice of Jerusalem for the first kebla of

the"jUews prayer discovers the early propensity of Mahomet

of Arabia, m favour of the Jews; and happy would it have

623-^-627. been for their temporal interest, had they recog­

nised, in the Arabian prophet, the hope of Israel and the

promised Messiah. Their obstinacy converted his friend-

• In the third chapter of the Koran (p. 50—53. with Sale's notes), the prophet

alleges some poor excuses for the defeat of Ohud.

1 For the detail of the three Koreish wars, of Beder, of Ohud, and of the
ditch,

peruse Abulfeda, (p. 56—61. 64—69. 73—77.) Gagnier, (torn. 3. p. 23—45. 7O-

96.120—139.) with the proper articles of D'Herbelot, and the abridgments of

Elmaciu, (Hist. Saracen, p. 6,7.) and Abulpharagius. (Dynast, p. 102.)

