390 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the battle, Jonas sought and found the object of his pur­

suit; but her resentment was inflamed by the last act of

his perfidy; and as Eudocia struggled in his hateful

embraces, she struck a dagger to her heart. Another

female, the widow of Thomas, and the real or supposed

daughter of Heraclius, was spared and released without

a ransom: but the generosity of Caled was the effect of

his contempt; and the haughty Saracen insulted, by a

message of defiance, the throne of the Caesars. Caled

had penetrated above a hundred and fifty miles into the

heart of the Roman province: he returned to Damascus

with the same secrecy and speed. On the accession of

Omar, the sword of God was removed from the command;

but the caliph, who blamed the rashness, was compelled

to applaud the vigour and conduct, of the enterprise.

Fairof Another expedition of the conquerors of Da-

Abyia. mascus will equally display their avidity and

their contempt for the riches of the present world. They

were informed that the produce and manufactures of

the country were annually collected in the fair of Abyla,'

about thirty miles from the city; that the cell of a de­

vout hermit was visited at the same time by a multitude

of pilgrims; and that the festival of trade and super­

stition would be ennobled by the nuptials of the daughter

of the governor of Tripoli. Abdallah, the son of Jaafar,

a glorious and holy martyr, undertook, with a banner

of five hundred horse, the pious and profitable commis­

sion of despoiling the infidels. As he approached the

fair of Abyla, he was astonished by the report of the

mighty concourse of Jews and Christians, Greeks and

Armenians, of natives of Syria and of strangers of Egypt,

to the number of ten thousand, besides a guard of five

thousand horse that attended the person of the bride.

The Saracens paused. For my own part (said Abdallah),

* Dair Abil Kodos. After retrenching the last word, the epithet, holy, I dis­  
covered the Abila of Lysanias between Damascus and Heliopolis: the name

(Abil signifies a vineyard) concurs with the situation to justify my
conjecture.

( Reland, Palestin. torn. 1. p. 317. torn, 2. p. 5?5. 527.)

