484 ROMAN EMPIRE.

and religious freedom of their posterity. The epithet of

Martel, the Hammer, which has been added to the name

of Charles, is expressive of his weighty and irresistible

strokes: the valour of Eudes was excited by resentment

and emulation; and their companions, in the eye of his­

tory, are the true peers and paladins of French chivalry.

After a bloody field, in which Abderame was slain, the

Saracens, in the close of the evening, retired to their

camp. In the disorder and despair of the night, the va­

rious tribes of Yemen and Damascus, of Africa and

Spain, were provoked to turn their arms against each

other: the remains of their host were suddenly dis­

solved, and each emir consulted his safety by a hasty

and separate retreat. At the dawn of day, the stillness

of a hostile camp was suspected by the victorious Chris­

tians: on the report of their spies, they ventured to ex­

plore the riches of the vacant tents; but, if we except

some celebrated relics, a small portion of the spoil was

restored to the innocent and lawful owners. The joyful

tidings were soon diffused over the Catholic world, and

the monks of Italy could affirm and believe that three

hundred and fifty, or three hundred and seventy-five

thousand of the Mahometans had been crushed by the

hammer of Charles;' while no more than fifteen hun­

dred Christians were slain in the field of Tours. But

this incredible tale is sufficiently disproved by the cau­

tion of the French general, who apprehended the snares

and accidents of a pursuit, and dismissed his German

allies to their native forests. The inactivity of a con­

queror betrays the loss of strength and blood, and the

most cruel execution is inflicted, not in the ranks of

battle, but on the backs of a flying enemy. Yet the vic­

* These numbers are stated by Paul Wamefirid, the deacon of Aquileia (de Gectis  
Langobard. lib. 6. p. 921. edit , Grot.) and Anastasius, the librarian of the
Roman

church, (in Vit. Gregorii II.) who tells a miraculous story of three
consecrated

sponges, which rendered invulnerable the French soldiers among whom they had

been shared. It should seem, that in his letters to the pope, Eudes usurped
the ho­

nour of the victory, for which he was chastised by the French annalists, who.
with

equal falsehood, accuse him of inviting the Saracens.

