CHAP. L. 309

the companion and brother of the noble youth. The ex­

pedient was crowned with success; the holy fraternity

was respected both in peace and war, and the two par­

ties vied with each other in a generous emulation of

courage and fidelity. Once only the concord was

slightly ruffled by an accidental quarrel; a patriot of

Medina arraigned the insolence of the strangers, but the

hint of their expulsion was heard with abhorrence, and

his own son most eagerly offered to lay at the apostle's

feet the head of his father.

His regal From his establishment at Medina, Mahomet

A.^.'ezs assumed the exercise of the regal and sacerdo-

—63s. tal office; and it was impious to appeal from a

judge whose decrees were inspired by the divine wisdom.

A small portion of ground, the patrimony of two orphans,

was acquired by gift or purchase ;f on that chosen spot,

he built a house and a mosch, more venerable in their rude

simplicity than the palaces and temples of the Assyrian

caliphs. His seal of gold, or silver, was inscribed with

the apostolic title: when he prayed and preached in

the weekly assembly, he leaned against the trunk of a

palm-tree; and it was long before he indulged himself

in the use of a chair or pulpit of rough timber.5 After

a reign of six years, fifteen hundred Moslems, in arms

and in the field, renewed their oath of allegiance; and

their chief repeated the assurance of protection till the

death of the last member, or the final dissolution of the

pasty. It was in the same camp that the deputy of

Mecca was astonished by the attention of the faithful to

f Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 44.) reviles the wickednes of the impostor,
who

despoiled two poor orphans, the sons of a carpenter; a reproach which he drew

from the Disputatio contra Saracenos, composed in Arabic before the year 1130;

but the honest Gagnier (ad Abulfed. p. 53.) has shewn that they were deceived

by the word At Nagjar, which signifies, in this place, not an obscure trade,
bat a

noble tribe of Arabs. The desolate state of the ground is described by
Abulfeda;

and his worthy interpreter has proved from Al Bochari, the offer of a price;
from

Al Jannabi, the fair purchase; and from Ahmed Ben Joseph, the payment of the

money by the generous Abubeker. On these grounds the prophet must be honour­

ably acquitted.

f Al Jannabi (apud Gagnier, torn. p. 246. 324.) describes the seal and pulpit,

as two venerable relics of the apostle of God; and the portrait of his court »

aien from Abolfeda. (c. 44. p. 85.)

