CHAP. XLVII. 45

disease was ascribed to the miraculous succour of the

holy martyrs Cosmas and Damian. The capital and

the provinces of the east were decorated with the monu­

ments of his religion;™ and, though the far greater part

of these'costly structures maybe attributed to his taste or

ostentation, the zeal of the royal architect was probably

quickened by a genuine sense of love and gratitude to­

wards his invisible benefactors. Among the titles of

imperial greatness, the name of Pious was most pleasing

to his ear; to promote the temporal and spiritual interests

of the church, was the serious business of his life; and

the duty of father of his country was often sacrificed to

that of defender of the faith. The controversies of the

times were congenial to his temper and understanding;

and the theological professors must inwardly deride the

diligence of a stranger, who cultivated their art and neg­

lected his own. What can ye fear (said a bold con­

spirator to his associates) from your bigoted tyrant;

Sleepless and unarmed he sits whole nights in his closet,

debating with reverend gray-beards, and turning over

the pages of ecclesiastical volumes." The fruits of these

lucubrations were displayed in many a conference, where

Justinian might shine as the loudest and most subtle of

the disputants; inmany a sermon, which, underthe name

of edicts and epistles, proclaimed to the empire the the­

ology of their master. While the barbarians invaded

the provinces, while the victorius legions marched under

the banners of Belisarius and Narses, the successor of

Trajan, unknown to the camp, was content to vanquish

at the head of a synod. Had he invited to these synods

a disinterested and rational spectator, Justinian might

have learned that religious controversy is the a/spring

of arrogance and folly; that true piety is most laudably

•, Procop. de Edificiis, lib. 1. c. 6.7, &c. passirn.

""0; )l xaftlTOI a^wtoXTOc 1C all iwi XJs^lt TIVOC =i»pl nuran ipau tut •'<&
Iff""

-.;::'.:l: arytva mountou Ta Xfia-rwTOv Xeyia cwwtr.i ty?n. Procop. dc Bell. Goth.  
lib. 3. c. St. In the life of St. Eutychms, (apucl Aleman. ad Procop. Arcan.
c. 18.)

the same character i» given with a design to praise Justinian.

