CHAP. LI. 421

bigotry of the Christians, who studied to destroy the

monuments of idolatry." But if we gradually descend

from the age of the Antonines to that of Theodosius, we

shall learn from a chain of contemporary witnesses, that

the royal palace and the temple of Serapis no longer con­

tained the four, or the seven, hundred thousand volumes,

which had been assembled by the curiosity and magni­

ficence of the Ptolemies/ Perhaps the church and seat

of the patriarchs might be enriched with a repository of

books; but if the ponderous mass of Arian and Mono-

physite controversy were indeed consumed in the pu blic

baths,g a philosopher may allow, with a smile, that it was

ultimately devoted to the. benefit of mankind. I sin­

cerely regret the more valuable libraries which have

been involved in the ruin of the Roman empire: but

when I seriously compute the lapse of ages, the waste of

ignorance, and the calamities of war, our treasures, rather

than our losses, are the object of my surprise. Many

curious and interesting facts are buried in oblivion; the

three great historians of Rome have been transmitted to

our hands in a mutilated state, and we are deprived of

many pleasing compositions of the lyric, iambic, and

dramatic poetry of the Greeks. Yet we should grate­

fully remember, that the mischances of time and acci­

dent have spared the classic works to which the suffrage

of antiquity11 had adjudged the first place of genius and

glory: the teachers of ancient knowledge, who are still

Usher. (A nual, p. 469.) . Li vy himself had styled the Alexandrian library,
elegan-

tia regum cursque egregium opus; a liberal encomium, for which he is partly

criticised by the narrow stoicism of Seneca, ( De Tranquillitate Animi, c. 9.)
whose

wisdom, on this occasion, deviates into nonsense.

'See this History, vol. 5. p. 117.

'Aulus Gellius, (Noctes Attics, 6. 17.) Ammianus Marcellinui, (tZ. 16.) and

Orosius. (lib. 6. c. 15.) They all speak in the post tense, and the words of
Am­

mianus are remarkably strong. fuerunt Bibliothecs innumerabiles; et loquitur

monumentorum veteran concinens fides, &c.

f Benaudot answers for versions of the Bible, Hexapla Catena PatrutD, Com­

mentaries, Sfc. (p. 170.) Our Aleiandrian MS. if it came from Egypt, and not

from Constantinople, or mount Athos, (Wetstein, Prolegorn. ad N. T. p. 8, &c.)

might poisibly be among thern.

b I have often perused with pleasure a chapter of Quintilian, (Institut.
Orator.

10. 1.) in which that judicious critic enumerates and appreciates the series
of Greek

and Latin classics.

