CHAP. L. 279

instituted, in each year, a fast of thirty days; and stre­

nuously recommended the observance, as a discipline

which purifies the soul and subdues the body, as a salu­

tary exercise of obedience to the will of God and his

apostle. During the month of Ramadan, from the rising

to the setting of the sun, the Mussulman abstains from

eating, and drinking, and women, and baths, and per­

fumes; from all nourishment that can restore his strength,

from all pleasure that can gratify his senses. In the re­

volution of the lunar year, the Ramadan coincides by

turns with the winter cold and the summer heat; and

the patient martyr, without assuaging his thirst with a

drop of water, must expect the close of a tedious and

sultry day. The interdiction of wine, peculiar to some

orders of priests or hermits, is converted by Mahomet

alone into a positive and general law :m and a considera­

ble portion of the globe has abjured, at his command, the

use of that salutary, though dangerous liquor. These

painful restraints are, doubtless, infringed by the liber­

tine, and eluded by the hypocrite: but the legislator, by

whom they are enacted, cannot surely be accused of al­

luring his proselytes by the indulgence of their sensual

appetites. III. The charity of the Mahometans de­

scends to the animal creation; and the Koran repeatedly

inculcates, not as a merit, but as a strict and indispensa­

ble duty, the relief of the indigent and unfortunate. Ma­

homet, perhaps, is the only lawgiver who has defined the

precise measure of charity: the standard may vary with

the degree and nature of property, as it consists either in

money, in corn or cattle, in fruits or merchandise; but

the Mussulman does not accomplish the law, unless he

bestows a tenth of his revenue; and if his conscience ac­

and AI Beidawi. D'Herbelot declares, that Mahomet condemned In vi religietise;

and that the first swarms of fakirs, dervises, &c. did not appear till after
the year

300 of the Hegira. (Bibliot. Orient, p. 292. 718.

m See the double prohibition; (Koran, c. 2. p. 25. c. 5. p. 94.) the one in
the

style of a legislator, the other in that of a fanatic. The public and private
motives

of Mahomet are investigated by Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 62—64.)audSale.

(Preliminary Discourse, p.

