CHAP. LI. :J73

and imams was ennobled by the blood of their royal

mothers.11

The After the fall of the Persian kingdom, the river

quest of Oxus divided the territories of the Saracens and

ia^a?0* of the Turks. This narrow boundary was soon

A-D.no. overleaped by the spirit of the Arabs: the go­

vernors of Chorasan extended their successive inroads;

and one of their triumphs was adorned with the buskin

of a Turkish queen, which she dropped in her precipitate

flight beyond the hills of Bochara/ But the final con­

quest of Transoxiana," as well as of Spain, was reserved

for the glorious reign of the inactive Walid; and the

name of Catibah, the camel driver, declares the origin

and merit of his successful lieutenant. While one of his

colleagues displayed the first Mahometan banner on the

banks of the Indus, the spacious regions between the

Oxus, the Jaxartes, and the Caspian sea, were reduced

by the arms of Catibah to the obedience of the prophet,

and of the caliph.' A tribute of two millions of pieces

of gold was imposed on the infidels; their idols were

burnt or broken: the Mussulman chief pronounced a

sermon in the new mosch of Carizme; after several bat­

tles, the Turkish hordes were driven back to the desert;

and the emperors of China solicited the friendship of

i The two daughters of Yezdegerd married Hassan, the eon of Ali, and Mo­

hammed, the son of Abubeker; and the first of these was the father of a
numerous

progeny. The daughter of Phirouz became the wife of the caliph Walid, and
their

son Yezid derived his genuine or fabulous descent from the Chosroes of Persia,

the Caesars of Rome, and the Chagans of the Turks or Avars. (d'Herbelot,
Bibliot.

Orientale, p. 96. 487.)

'It was valued at two thousand pieces of gold, and was tin' prize of
Obeidollah,

the eon of Zivad, a name afterward infamous by the murder of Hosein. (Ockley's

History of the Saracens, vol. 2. p. 142,143.) His brother Salem was
accompanied

by bis wife, the first Arabian woman (A. D. 680.) who passed the Oxus: she

borrowed, or rather stole, the crown and jewels of the princess of the
Sogdians.

(.231, 232.)

• A part of Abulfeda's geography is translated by Greaves, inserted in
Hudson's

collection of the minor geographers, (torn. 3.) and entitled, Descriptio
Chorasmki:

et Mawaralnahra, id est, regionum extra fluvium, (.Hum, p. 80. The name of

Tratuoxiana, softer in sound, equivalent in sense, is aptly used by Petit de
la Croix,

(Hist, de Gengiscan, &c.) and some modern orientalists; but they are mistaken
in

ascribing it to the writers of antiquity.

'The conquests of Catibah are faintly marked by Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p.

84.) d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient. Catbah,Samarcand,Valid) andde Outgoes.

4e> Huns, torn. 1. p. 58, 59.)

