142 ROMAN EMPIRE.

reign. His elder brother had preferred his private chas­

tity to the public interest, and Constantine himself had

only three daughters, Eudocia, who took the veil, and

Zoe and Theodora, who were preserved till a mature

age in a state of ignorance and virginity. When their

marriage was discussed in the council of their dying

father, the cold or pious Theodora refused to give a heir

to ,the empire, but her sister Zoe presented herself a

willing victim at the altar. Romanus Argyrus, a pa­

trician of a graceful person and fair reputation, was

chosen for her husband, and, on his declining that

honour, was informed, that blindness or death was the

second alternative. The motive of his reluctance was

conjugal affection; but his faithful wife sacrificed her

own happiness to his safety and greatness; and her

entrance into a monastery removed the only bar to the

imperial nuptials. After the decease of Constantine,

the sceptre devolved to Romanus III.; but his labours

at home and abroad were equally feeble and fruitless;

and the mature age, the forty-eight years of Zoe, were

less favourable to the hopes of pregnancy than to the

indulgence of pleasure. Her favourite chamberlain

was a handsome Paphlagonian of the name of Michael,

whose first trade had been that of a money-changer;

and Romanus, either from gratitude or equity, connired

at their criminal intercourse, or accepted a slight assu­

rance of their innocence. But Zoe soon justified the

Roman maxim, that every adulteress is capable of poi­

soning her husband; and the death of Romanus was in­

stantly followed by the scandalous marriage and eleva-

tion of Michael IV. The expectations of Zoe

o- were, however, disappointed: instead of a vi-

^, A. D. gOrous and grateful lover, she had placed in her

ra 11. bed a miserable wretch, whose health and rea­

son were impaired by epileptic fits, and whose con­

science was tormented by despair and remorse. The

most skilful physicians of the mind and body were

