252 ROMAN EMPIRE.

passed the Alps consisted of three hundred horse.

In the cathedral of St. Ambrose, Charles was

crowned with the iron crown, which tradition ascribed

to the Lombard monarchy; but he was admitted only

with a peaceful train; the gates of the city were shut

upon him; and the king of Italy was held a captive by

the arms of the Visconti, whom he confirmed in the

sovereignty of Milan. In the Vatican he was again

crowned with the golden crown of the empire; but, in

obedience to a secret treaty, the Roman emperor imme­

diately withdrew, without reposing a single night within

the walls of Rome. The eloquent Petrarch," whose

fancy revived the visionary glories of the Capitol, de­

plores and upbraids the ignominious flight of the Bohe­

mian; and even his contemporaries could observe, that

the sole exercise of his authority was in the lucrative

sale of privileges and titles. The gold of Italy secured

the election of his son; but such was the shameful po­

verty of the Roman emperor, that his person was ar­

rested by a butcher in the streets of Worms, and was

detained in the public inn, as a pledge or hostage for

the payment of his expenses.

His osten From this humiliating scene, let us turn to the

tation,^ apparent majesty of the same Charles in the

diets of the empire. The golden bull, which

fixes the Germanic constitution, is promulgated in the

style of a sovereign and legislator. A hundred princes

bowed before his throne, and exalted their own dignity

by the voluntary honours which they yielded to their

chief or minister. At the royal banquet, the hereditary

great officers, the seven electors, who in rank and title

were equal to kings, performed their solemn and domes­

tic service of the palace. The seals of the triple king­

dom were borne in state by the archbishops of Mentz,

"Besides the German and Italian historians, tho expedition of Charles IV. is

painted in lively and original colours in the curious Memoires sur la Vie de
IV.

trarque, torn. 3. p. 376—430. by the abbe de Sade, whose prolixity has m UT
been

blamed by any reader of taste and curiosity.

