ROMAN EMPIRE.

sieges of Syria," one of the countries that have been im-

Heiiopo- proved by the most early cultivation, is not un-

worthy of the preference.7 The heat of the cli-

A T) fi^l**

'mate is tempered by the vicinity of the sea and

mountains, by the plenty of wood and water; and the

produce of a fertile soil affords the subsistence, and en­

courages the propagation, of men and animals. From

the age of David to that of Heraclius, the country was

overspread with ancient and flourishing cities: the inha­

bitants were numerous and wealthy; and, after the slow

ravage of despotism and superstition, after the recent

calamities of the Persian war, Syria could still attract

and reward the rapacious tribes of the desert. A plain,

of ten days' journey from Damascus to Aleppo and An-

tioch, is watered, on the western side, by the winding

course of the Orontes. The hills of Libanus and Anti-

Libanus are planted from north to south, between the

Orontes and the Mediterranean, and the epithet of hollow

(Ccelesyria) was applied to a long and fruitful valley,

which is confined in the same direction by the two ridges

of snowy mountains." Among the cities which are enu­

merated by Greek and oriental names in the geography

and conquest of Syria, we may distinguish Emesa or

Hems, Heliopolis or Baalbec, the former as the metro­

polis of the plain, the latter as the capital of the valley.

Under the last of the Caesars, they were strong and popu­

* In the geography of Abulfeda, the description of Syria, his native country, a  
the most interesting and authentic portion. It was published in Arabic and
Latin,

i.ipsiiv, 1766, in quarto, with the learned notes of Kochler and Beiske, and
some

extracts of geography and natural history from the Ibn Ol Wardii. Among the
mo­

dern travels, Pocock's description of the east (of Syria and Mesopotamia, vol.
2.

p. 88 — 209.) is a work of superior learning and dignity; but the author too
often

confounds what he had seen and what he had read.

J The praises of Dionysius are just and lively. Kai tn fjtn (Syria) sreXX« TI
nu

oXgioi ai>{tf txown. (in Periegesi, v. 902. in torn. 4. Geograph. Minor.
Hudson.)

In another place he styles the country f«XuirniXiv ainy (v. 898.) He proceeds
to say,

llacrft Sfi TOf XlWafH tt Xrti fUlSoTOf ITTXlTO £OffH

MnXa TS itiff£t;unai tuu Jn$;«ri xafiror at£i». v. 9tl, 922.

This poetical geographer lived in the age of Augustus, and his description of
the

world is illustrated by the Greek commentary of Eustathius, who paid the same

compliment to Homer and Dionysius. (Fabric. Bibliot. Grac. lib. 4. c. 2. torn.
3.

p. 21, &c.)

* The topography of the Libanus and Anti-Libanus, is excellently described by  
the learning and sense of Reland. (Palestin. torn. 1. p. 311 — 926.)

