CHAP. XLVIII. 163

t

orders were dispatched into the provinces for the reco­

very of their fugitive; and his wife, on the suspicion of a

pious act, was basely imprisoned in the same tower. At

the dead of night she beheld a spectre: she recognised

her husband; they shared their provisions; and a son

was thefruitof these stolen interviews; which alleviated

the tediousness of their confinement. In the custody of

a woman, the vigilance of the keepers was insensibly re­

laxed; and the captive had accomplished his real escape,

when he was discovered, brought back to Constanti­

nople, and loaded with a double chain. At length he

found the moment and the means of his deliverance. A

boy. his domestic servant, intoxicated the guards, and

obtained in wax the impression of the keys. By the di­

ligence of his friends, a similar key, with a bundle of

ropes, was introduced into the prison, in the bottom of

a hogshead. Andronicus employed, with industry and

courage, the instrument of his safety, unlocked the doors,

descended from the tower, concealed himself all day

among the bushes, and scaled in the night the garden-

wall of the palace. A boat was stationed for his recep­

tion; he visited his own house, embraced his children,

cast away his chain, mounted a fleet horse, and directed

his rapid course towards the banks of the Danube. At

Anchialus in Thrace, an intrepid friend supplied him with

horses and money: he passed the river, traversed with

speed the desert of Moldavia and the Carpathian hills,

and had almost reached the town of Halicz, in the Polish

Russia, when he was intercepted by a party of Wala-

chians, who resolved to convey their important captive

to Constantinople. His presence of mind again extricated

him from this danger. Under the pretence of sickness,

he dismounted in the night, and was allowed to step

aside from the troop: he planted in the ground his long

staff; clothed it with his cap and upper garment; and,

stealing into the wood, left a phantom to amuse, for

some time, the eyes of the Wakchians. From Halicz

M 2

