CHAP. XLIX. 197

ninety-three bishops against the heresy of the Icono­

clasts. With their consent he pronounced a general

excommunication against all who by word or deed

should attack the tradition of the fathers and the images

of the saints; in this sentence the emperor was tacitly

involved/ but the vote of a last and hopeless remon­

strance may seem to imply that the anathema was yet

suspended over his guilty head. No sooner had they

confirmed their own safety, the worship of images, and

the freedom of Rome and Italy, than the popes appear

to have relaxed of their severity, and to have spared

the relics of the Byzantine dominion. Their moderate

counsels delayed and prevented the election of a new

emperor, and they exhorted the Italians not to separate

from the body of the Roman monarchy. The exarch

was permitted to reside within the walls of Ravenna, a

captive rather than a master; and till the imperial co­

ronation of Charlemagne, the government of Rome and

Italy was exercised in the name of the successors of

Constantine."

Republic r"-1^e liberty of Rome, which had been op-

of Home, pressed by the arms and arts of Augustus, was

rescued, after seven hundred and fifty years of servi­

tude, from the persecution of Leo the Isaurian. By the

Caesars, the triumphs of the consuls had been annihi­

lated: in the decline and fall of the empire, the god

Terminus, the sacred boundary, had insensibly receded

from the ocean, the Rhine, the Danube, and the Eu­

phrates: and Rome was reduced to her ancient terri­

tory from Viterbo to Terracina, and from Narni to the

'Yet Leo was undoubtedly comprised in the si quis .... imaginum aacraram

.... destructor.... extiterit sit extorris a corpore D. N. Jesu Christi vel
todus

ecclesiae imitate. The canonists may decide whether the guilt or the name
consti­

tutes tbe excommunication; and the decision is of the last importance to their

safety, since, according to the oracle, (Gratian Cans. 33. p. 5. c. 47. apud
Span-

helm, Hist. Imag. p. 113.) homicidas non esse qui excommunicates trucidant.

Compescuit tale consilium Pontifex, sperans conversionem principle. (Ana-

Mas, p. 156.) Sed ne desisterent ab amore et fide R. J. admonebat. (p. 157.)

The popes style Leo and Constantine Corpronymus, Imperatores et Domini, with

the strange epithet of Piiisimi. A famous mosaic of the Lateran (A. D. 798.)
re­

presents Christ, who delivers the keys to St. Peter and the banner to Constan­

tine V. (Muratori, Annali d'ltalia, torn. 6. p. 337.)

