368 ROMAN EMPIRE.

suers; the gorgeous trophy was presented to the com­

mander of the faithful, and the gravest of the com­

panions condescended to smile when they beheld the

white beard, hairy arms, and uncouth figure, of the

veteran, who was invested with the spoils of the great

king.0 The sack of Ctesiphon was followed by its de­

sertion and gradual decay. The Saracens dis-

tion of liked the air and situation of the place, and Omar

was advised by his general to remove the seat of

government to the western side of the Euphrates. In

every age the foundation and ruin of the Assyrian cities

has been easy and rapid; the country is destitute of

stone and timber, and the most solid structures'1 are com­

posed of bricks baked in the sun, and joined by a cement

of the native bitumen. The name of Cufa" describes a

habitation of reeds and earth; but the importance of the

new capital was supported by the numbers, wealth, and

spirit, of a colony of veterans; and their licentiousness

was indulged by the wisest caliphs, who were appre­

hensive of provoking the revolt of a hundred thousand

swords. Ye men of Cufa (said Ali, who solicited their

aid), you have been always conspicuous by your valour.

You conquered the Persian king, and scattered his forces,

till you had taken possession of his inheritance. This

mighty conquest was achieved by the battles of Jalula

and Nehavend. After the loss of the former, Yezdegerd

fled from Holwan, and concealed his shame and despair

in the mountains of Farsistan, from whence Cyrus had

descended with his equal and valiant companions. The

courage of the nation survived that of the monarch;

among the hills to the south of Ecbatana or Hamadan,

one hundred and fifty thousand Persians made a third

1 See Gagnier. Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 376, 377. I may credit the fact,

without believing the prophecy.

* The most considerable ruins of Assyria are the tower of Belus at Babylon, and  
the hall of Chosroes at Ctesiphon: they have been visited by that vain and
curious

traveller Pietro della Valle. (torn. 1. p. 713—718. 731—735.)

<• Consult the article of Coufah in the Bibliotheque of d'Herbelot, (p. 277,
¥16.)

and the second volume of Ocklry's History, particularly p. 40. and 153.

