CHAP. XLIX. 209

tomb of St. Peter. The ample measure of the exarchate'

might comprise all the provinces of Italy which had

obeyed the emperor and his vicegerent; but its strict

and proper limits were included in the territories of

Ravenna, Bologna, and Ferrara; its inseparable de­

pendency was the Pentapolis, which stretched along the

Hadriatic from Rimini to Ancona,and advanced into the

midland country as far as the ridges of the Appennine.

In this transaction, the ambition and avarice of the popes

had been severely condemned. Perhaps the humility

of a Christian priest should have rejected an earthly

kingdom, which it was not easy for him to govern with­

out renouncing the virtues of his profession. Perhaps

a faithful subject, or a generous enemy, would have

been less impatient to divide the spoils of the barbarian;

and if the emperor had intrusted Stephen to solicit in

his name the restitution of the exarchate, I will not

absolve the pope from the reproach of treachery and

falsehood. But in the rigid interpretation of the laws,

every one may accept, without injury, whatever his

benefactor can bestow without injustice. The Greek

emperor had abdicated or forfeited his right to the ex­

archate; and the sword of Astolphus was broken by the

stronger sword of the Carlovingian. It was not in the

cause of the Iconoclast that Pepin had exposed his per­

son and army in a double expedition beyond the Alps;

he possessed, and might lawfully alienate, his conquests;

and to the importunities of the Greeks, he piously re­

plied, that no human consideration should tempt him to

resume the gift which he had conferred on the Roman

pontiff for the remission of his sins, and the salvation of

his soul. The splendid donation was granted in supreme

and absolute dominion, and the world beheld for the

first time a Christian bishop invested with the preroga­

'Between the exorbitant claims, and narrow concessions, of interest and preju­

dice, from which even Muratori (Antiquitat. torn. 1. p. 63—68.) is not exempt,
I

have been guided, in the limits of the exarchate and Pentapolis, by the
Dissertatio

Chorographica Italia Medii JEvi, torn. 10. p. 160—180.

VOL. VI. P

