CHAP. LI. 411

the enterprise, he condemned his own rashness, and list足

ened to his timid companions. The pride and the great足

ness of Pharaoh were familiar to the readers of the Koran;

and a tenfold repetition of prodigies had been scarcely

sufficient to effect, not the victory, but the flight, of six

hundred thousand of the children of Israel: the cities of

Egypt were many and populous; their architecture was

strong and solid; the Nile> with its numerous branches,

was alone an insuperable barrier; and the granary of

the imperial city would be obstinately defended by the

Roman powers. In this perplexity, the commander of

the faithful resigned himself to the decision of chance,

or, in his opinion, of Providence. At the head of only

four thousand Arabs, the intrepid Amrou had marched

away from his station of Gaza when he was overtaken

by the messenger of Omar. If you are still in Syria

(said the ambiguous mandate), retreat without delay; but

if, at the receipt of this epistle, you have already reached

the frontiers of Egypt, advance with confidence, and de足

pend on the succour of God and of your brethren. The

experience, perhaps the secret intelligence, of Amrou had

taught him to suspect the mutability of courts; and he

continued his march till his tents were unquestionably

pitched on Egyptian ground. He there assembled his

officers, broke the seal, perused the epistle, gravely in足

quired the name and situation of the place, and declared

his ready obedience to the commands of the caliph.

After a siege of thirty days, he took possession of Far-

mah or Pelusium, and that key of Egypt, as it has been

justly named, unlocked the entrance of the country, as-

far as the ruins of Heliopolis and the neighbourhood of

the modern Cairo.

The cities ^n *^e western s*de of ^e Nile, at a small

of Mem- distance to the east of the pyramids, at a small

Syion, and distance to the south of the Delta, Memphis,

0' one hundred and fifty furlongs in circumference,

displayed the magnificence of ancient kings. Under

