148 ROMAN EMPIRE.

His three sons, Michael VII. Andronicus I. and Con-

stantine XII. were invested, in a tender age, with the

equal title of Augustus; and the succession was speed­

ily opened by their father's death. His widow,

A.D. io67, Eudocia, was intrusted with the administration;

*7' but experience had taught the jealousy of the  
dying monarch to protect his sons from the danger of

her second nuptials; and her solemn engagement, at­

tested by the principal senators, was deposited in the

hands of the patriarch. Before the end of seven

months the wants of Eudocia, or those of the state,

called aloud for the male virtues of a soldier; and her

heart had already chosen Romanus Diogenes, whom

she raised from the scaffold to the throne. The dis­

covery of a treasonable attempt had exposed him to the

severity of the laws: his beauty and valour absolved

him in the eyes of the empress; and Romanus, from a

mild exile, was recalled on the second day to the com­

mand of the oriental armies. Her royal choice was yet

unknown to the public, and the promise which would

have betrayed her falsehood and levity, was stolen by

a dexterous emissary from the ambition of the patriarch.

Xiphilin at first alleged the sanctity of oaths and the

sacred nature of a trust; but a whisper that his brother

was the future emperor, relaxed his scruples, and forced

him to confess that the public safety was the supreme

law. He resigned the important paper; and when his

hopes were confounded by the nomination of Romanus,

he could no longer regain his security, retract his de­

clarations, nor oppose the second nuptials of the em­

press. Yet a murmur was heard in the palace; and

Roma- the barbarian guards had raised their battle-

nus in. axes in the cause Of the house of Ducas, till

Diogenes,

A. D. 1067, the young princes were soothed by the tears of

their mother and the solemn assurances of the

fidelity of their guardian, who filled the imperial sta­

tion with dignity and honour. Hereafter I shall relate

