CHAP. XLIX. 229

or Huns, of Pannonia, the same calamities

which they had inflicted on the nations. Their

rings, the wooden fortifications which encircled their

districts and villages, were broken down by the triple

effort of a French army, that was poured into their

country by land and water, through the Carpathian

mountains, and along the plain of the Danube. After

a bloody conflict of eight years, the loss of some French

generals was avenged by the slaughter of the most no­

ble Huns: the relics of the nation submitted: the royal

residence of the chagan was left desolate and unknown:

and the treasures, the rapine of two hundred and fifty

years, enriched the victorious troops, or decorated the

churches of Italy and Gaul.' After the reduction of

Pannonia the empire of Charlemagne was bounded

only by the conflux of the Danube with the Teyss and

the Save: the provinces of Istria, Liburnia, and Dal-

matia, were an easy, though unprofitable, accession;

and it was an effect of his moderation, that he left the

maritime cities under the real or nominal sovereignty

of the Greeks. But these distant possessions added

more to the reputation than to the power of the Latin

emperor; nor did he risk any ecclesiastical foundations

to reclaim the barbarians from their vagrant life and

idolatrous worship. Some canals of communication

between the rivers, the Saone and the Meuse, the

Rhine and the Danube, were faintly attempted." Their

execution would have vivified the empire; and more

cost and labour were often wasted in the structure of a

cathedral.

1 Quot pralia in eo gesta! quantum sanguinis effusum sit! Testator vacua

oiuni habitations Pannonia, et locus in quo regia Cagani fuit ita desertus, ut
ne

vestigium quidem humanIB habitationis appareat* Tota in hoc bello Hunnorum

nobilitas periit, tota gloria decidit, omnis pecunia et congest! ex longo
tempore

thesauri direpti sunt.

'- The junction of the Rhine and Danube was undertaken only for the service

of the Pannonian war. (Gaillard, Vie de Charlemagne, torn. 2. p. 312—315.)

The canal, which would have been only two leagues in length, and of which some

traces are still extant in Swabia, was interrupted by excessive rains,
military avo­

cations, and superstitious fears. (Schaepflin, Hist, de rAcademie des
Inscriptions,

torn. 18. p. 256. Molimina fluviorum, &c. jungendorum, p. 59—62.)

