272 ROMAN EMPIRE.

their keenest satire against a despicable race, they af­

firmed, in the bitterness of reproach, that the men knew

not how to give, nor the women to deny.' The

Examples . • •,• i • i • i i «i

of genero- same hospitality, which was practised by Abra-

81ty' ham and celebrated by Homer, is still renewed in

the camps of the Arabs. The ferocious Bedoweens, the

terror of the desert, embrace, without inquiry or hesita­

tion, the stranger who dares to confide in their honour

and to enter their tent. His treatment is kind and respect-'

ful; he shares the wealth or the poverty of his host: and,

after a needful repose, he is dismissed on his way, with

thanks, with blessings, and perhaps with gifts. The

heart and hand are more largely expanded by the wants

of a brother or a friend; but the heroic acts that could

deserve the public applause, must have surpassed the

narrow measure of discretion and experience. A dis­

pute had arisen, who, among the citizens of Mecca,

was entitled to the prize of generosity, and a successive

application was made to the three who were deemed

most worthy of the trial. Abdallah, the son of Abbas,

had undertaken a distant journey, and his foot was in

the stirrup, when he heard the voice of a suppliant,—

O son of the uncle of the apostle of God, I am a travel­

ler and in distress! He instantly dismounted to present

the pilgrim with his camel, her rich caparison, and a

purse of four thousand pieces of gold, excepting only

the sword, either for its intrinsic value, or as the gift of

an honoured kinsman. The servant of Kais informed

the second suppliant that his master was asleep; but

he immediately added, Here is a purse of seven thou­

sand pieces of gold (it is all we have in the house), and

here is an order, that will entitle you to a camel and a

slave: the master, as soon as he awoke, praised and

enfranchised his faithful steward with a gentle reproof,

that, by respecting his slumbers, he had stinted his

bounty. The third of these heroes, the blind Arabah,

1 Sale's Preliminary Discourse, p. 29, 30.

