CHAP. XLVIII. 133

His three sons, Christopher, Stephen, and Con-

pher, ste- stantine, were successively adorned with the

phen, Con- *

same honours, and the lawful emperor was de­

graded from the first to the fifth rank in this col­

lege of princes. Yet, in the preservation of his life

and crown, he might still applaud his own fortune and

the clemency of the usurper. The examples of ancient

and modern history would have excused the ambition

of Romanus: the powers and the laws of the empire

were in his hand: the spurious birth of Constantine

would have justified his exclusion; and the grave or

the monastery was open to receive the son of the con­

cubine. But Lecapenus does not appear to have pos­

sessed either the virtues or the vices of a tyrant. The

spirit and activity of his private life dissolved away in

the sunshine of the throne; and in his licentious plea­

sures, he forgot the safety both of the republic and of

his family. Of a mild and religious character, he re­

spected the sanctity of oaths, the innocence of the youth,

the memory of his parents, and the attachment of the

people. The studious temper and retirement of Con­

stantine disarmed the jealousy of power: his books and

music, his pen and his pencil, were a constant source

of amusement; and if he could improve a scanty allow­

ance by the sale of his pictures, if their price was not

enhanced by the name of the artist, he was endowed

with a personal talent, which few princes could employ

in the hour of adversity.

Constan- The fall of Romanus was occasioned by his

A0D?945, own vices and those of his children. After the

Jan. 27. decease of Christopher, his eldest son, the two

surviving brothers quarrelled with each other, and con­

spired against their father. At the hour of noon, when

all strangers were regularly excluded from the palace,

they entered his apartment with an armed force, and

conveyed him, in the habit of a monk, to a small island

in the Propontis, which was peopled by a religious com­

