CHAP. LIT. 513

Christian galleys, which preserved their advantageous

station along the coast. The victory inclined to the side

of the allies, when it was less gloriously decided in their

favour by a sudden tempest, which confounded the skill

and courage of the stoutest mariners. The Christians

were sheltered'in a friendly harbour, while the Africans

were scattered and dashed in pieces among the rocks and

islands of a hostile shore. Those who escaped from

shipwreck and hunger, neither found nor deserved mercy

at the hands of their implacable pursuers. The sword

and the gibbet reduced the dangerous multitude of cap足

tives; and the remainder was more usefully employed,

to restore the sacred edifices which they had attempted

to subvert. The pontiff, at the head of the citizens and

allies, paid his grateful devotion at the shrines of the

apostles; and among the spoils of this naval victory,

thirteen Arabian bows of pure and massy silver were

suspended round the altar of the fishermen of Galilee.

The reign of Leo the Fourth was employed in the de足

fence and ornament of the Roman state. The churches

were renewed and embellished; near four thousand

pounds of silver were consecrated to repair the losses of

St. Peter; and his sanctuary was decorated with a plate

of gold the weight of two hundred and sixteen pounds,

embossed with the portraits of the pope and emperor,

and encircled with a string of pearls. Yet this vain mag足

nificence reflects less glory on the character of Leo, than

the paternal care with which he rebuilt the walls of Horta

and A menu; and transported the wandering inhabitants

of Centumcellae to his new foundation of Leopolis,

twelve miles from the sea-shore." By his liberality a co足

lony of Corsicans, with their wives and children, was

planted in the station of Porto at the mouth of the Tyber;

the falling city was restored for their use, the fields and

vineyards were divided among the new settlers: their

Beretti (Thorographia Italis Medii .I'.vi, p. 106. 108.,) has illustrated Cen-

i'Ilu., Leopolia, Ciritaa Leonina, and the other places of the Roman dutchy.

VOL. VI. 2 L

