472 ROMAN EMPIRE.

was meditated, above the usual spirit of the Greeks, of

burning the naval stores of the enemy, the cypress tim足

ber that had been hewn in mount Libanus, and was piled

along the sea-shore of Phoanicia, for the service of the

Egyptian fleet. This generous enterprise was defeated by

the cowardice or treachery of the troops, who, in the new

language of the empire, were styled of the obsequian

theme} They murdered their chief, deserted their stand足

ard in the isle of Rhodes, dispersed themselves over the

adjacent continent, and deserved pardon or reward by

investing with the purple a simple officer of the revenue.

The name of Theodosius might recommend him to the

senate and people; but, after some months, he sunk into

a cloister, and resigned, to the firmer hand of Leo, the

Isaurian, the urgent defence of the capital and empire.

The most formidable of the Saracens, Moslemah, the

brother of the caliph, was advancing at the head of one

hundred and twenty thousand Arabs and Persians, the

greater part mounted on horses or camels; and the suc足

cessful sieges of Tyana, Amorium, and'Pergamus, were

of sufficient duration to exercise their skill, arid to elevate.

their hopes. At the well-known passage of Abydus on

the Hellespont, the Mahometan arms were transported,

for the first time, from Asia to Europe. From thence,

wheeling round the Thracian cities of the Propontis,

Moslemah invested Constantinople on the land side, sur足

rounded his camp with a ditch and rampart, prepared

and planted his engines of assault, and declared, by

words and actions, a patient resolution of expecting the

return of seed-time and harvest, should the obstinacy of

the besieged prove equal to his own. The Greeks would

gladly have ransomed their religion and empire, by a

fine or assessment of a piece of gold on the head of each

1 In the division of the thema, or provinces described by Constantine
Porphyro-

genitus de Tkematibus, (lib. 1. p. 9, 10.) the obuqutum, a Latin appellation
of the

army and palace, was the fourth in the public order. Nice was the metropolis

and its jurisdiction extended from the Hellespont over the adjacent parts of

Bithynia and Phrygia. (See the two maps prefixed by Deliele to the Imperium

Orientals of Banduri,)

