02 ROMAN EMPIRE.

forgotten; houses of charity were endowed for the

education of orphans and foundlings; the law of celi­

bacy, so forcibly recommended to the Greeks and La­

tins, was disregarded by the Persian clergy; and the

number of the elect was multiplied by the public and

reiterated nuptials of the priests, the bishops, and even

the patriarch himself. To this standard of natural and

religious freedom, myriads of fugitives resorted from

all the provinces of the eastern empire: the narrow bi­

gotry of Justinian was punished by the emigration of

his most industrious subjects; they transported into

Persia the arts both of peace and war: and those who

deserved the favour, were promoted in the service, of

a discerning monarch. The arms of Nushirvan, and

his fiercer grandson, were assisted with advice, and

money, and troops, by the desperate sectaries who

still lurked in their native cities of the east: their zeal

was rewarded with the gift of the Catholic churches;

but when those cities and churches were recovered by

Heraclius, their open profession of treason and heresy

compelled them to seek a refuge in the realm of their

foreign ally. But the seeming tranquillity of the Nes-

torians was often endangered, and sometimes over­

thrown. They were involved in the common evils of

oriental despotism: their enmity to Rome could not al­

ways atone for their attachment to the gospel: and a

colony of three hundred thousand Jacobites, the cap­

tives of Apamea and Antioch, was permitted to erect a •

hostile altar in the face of the Catholic, and in the sun­

shine of the court. In his last treaty, Justinian intro­

duced some conditions which tended to enlarge and

fortify the toleration of Christianity in Persia. The

emperor, ignorant of the rights of conscience, was in­

capable of pity or esteem for the heretics who denied

the authority of the holy synods: but he flattered him-

Bibliotheca Orientalis, the extracts in the three preceding tomes (torn. 1. p.
903.

9. p. 321—463. 3. 64—70. 378—395, &c. 403—408. 580—589.) may be use-

fall; consulted.

