346 ROMAN EMPIRE.

phian bad been fierce and obstinate; his conversion was

tardy and reluctant; his new faith was fortified by ne­

cessity and interest; he served, he fought, perhaps he

believed; and the sins of the time of ignorance were ex­

piated by the recent merits of the family of Ommiyah.

Moawiyah, the son of Abu Sophian, and of the cruel

Henda, was dignified in his early youth with the title

or office of secretary of the prophet; the judgment of

Omar intrusted him with the government of Syria; and

he administered that important province above forty

years, either in a subordinate or supreme rank. With­

out renouncing the fame of valour and liberality, he af­

fected the reputation of humanity and moderation; a

grateful people was attached to their benefactor; and the

victorious Moslems were enriched with the spoils of

Cyprus and Rhodes. The sacred duty of pursuing the

assassins of Othman was the engine and pretence of his

ambition. The bloody shirt of the martyr was exposed

in the mosch of Damascus: the emir deplored the fate

of his injured kinsman; and sixty thousand Syrians were

engaged in his service by an oath of fidelity and revenge.

Amrou,the conqueror of Egypt, himself and army, was the

first who saluted the new monarch, and divulged the dan­

gerous secret, that the Arabian caliphs might be created

elsewhere than in the city of the prophet/ The policy

of Moawiyah eluded the valour of his rival; and, after

the death of Ali, he negotiated the abdication of his son

Hassan, whose mind was either above or below the go­

vernment of the world, and who retired without a sigh

from the palace of Cufa to an humble cell near the tomb

of his grandfather. The aspiring wishes of the caliph

were finally crowned by the important change of an

elective to an hereditary kingdom. Some murmurs of

freedom or fanaticism attested the reluctance of the

Arabs, and four citizens of Medina refused the oath of

fidelity; but the designs of Moawiyah were conducted

'I borrow, on this occasion, the strong sense and expression of Tacitns. i Hi
i

1. *.) Evulgato imperil arcauo posse imperatorom alibi quam Horn.' fieri.

