CHAP. XLVII. 31

victory." TheMonaphysite doctrine (one incarnate na­

ture) was rigorously preached in the churches of Egypt

and the monasteries of the east; the primitive creed of

A poll mavis was protected by the sanctity of Cyril; and

the name of Eutyches, his venerable friend, has been ap­

plied to the sect most adverse to the Syrian heresy of

Nestorius. His rival Eutyches was the abbot, or archi­

mandrite, or superior of three hundred monks; but the

opinions of a simple and illiterate recluse might have ex­

pired in the cell where he had slept above seventy years,

if the resentment or indiscretion of Flavian, the Byzan­

tine pontiff, had not exposed the scandal to the eyes of

the Christian world. His domestic synod was instantly

convened, their proceedings were sullied with clamour

and artifice, and the aged heretic was surprised into a

seeming confession, that Christ had not derived his body

from the substance of the Virgin Mary. From their par­

tial decree Eutyches appealed to a general council; and

his cause was vigorously asserted by his godson Chry-

saphius, the reigning eunuch of the palace, and his ac­

complice Dioscorus, who had succeeded to the throne,

the creed, the talents, and the vices, of the nephew of

Second Theophilus. By the special summons of Theo-

Ephesus0 dosius, the second synod of Ephesus wasjudi-

Auf a^9' ciousty composed of ten metropolitans and ten

«• bishops from each of the six diocesses of the

eastern empire: some exceptions of favour or merit

enlarged the number to one hundred and thirty-five;

and the Syrian Barsumas, as the chief and representa­

tive of the monks, was invited to sit and vote with the

successors of the apostles. But the despotism of the

Alexandrian patriarch again oppressed the freedom

"Dixi Cyrillum dnm viveret, auctoritate sua effecisse, ne Eutychianismna et
Mo-

nophysitarum error in nervum erurnperet: idque verum puto . . . aliquo . . .
ho-

nesto modo roXiuiuy cecinerat. The learned but cautious Jablonski did not al­

ways speak the whole truth. Cum Cyrillo lenius omuino egi, qusm si tecum aut

aliis rei hujus probe gnaris et scquis rerum sstimatoribus sermones privates
confer-

rtro, (Thesaur. Epistol. La Crozian, torn. 1. p. 197,198.) an excellent key to
his

dissertations on the Nestorian controversy!

