246 ROMAN EMPIRE.

and as often as the bell was rung, or the standard8

erected, the gates of the city poured forth a numerous

and intrepid band, whose zeal in their own cause was

soon guided by the use and discipline of arms. At

the foot of these popular ramparts, the pride of the

Caesars was overthrown; and the invincible genius of

liberty prevailed over the two Frederics, the greatest

princes of the middle age: the first, superior perhaps

in military prowess; the second, who undoubtedly ex­

celled in the softer accomplishments of peace and

learning.

Ambitious of restoring the honours of the pur-

A.D. 1152 pie, Frederic I. invaded the republic of Lorn--

bardy, with the arts of a statesman, the valour

of a soldier, and the cruelty of a tyrant. The recent

discovery of the Pandects had renewed a science most

favourable to despotism; and his venal advocates pro­

claimed the emperor the absolute master of the lives and

properties of his subjects. His royal prerogatives, in a

less odious sense, were acknowledged in the diet of

Roncaglia; and the revenue of Italy was fixed at thirty

thousand pounds of silver,11 which were multiplied to

an indefinite demand, by the rapine of the fiscal officers.

The obstinate cities were reduced by the terror or force

of his arms; his captives were delivered to the execu­

tioner, or shot from his military engines; and, after the

siege and surrender of Milan, the buildings of that

stately capital were rased to the ground; three hundred

hostages were sent into Germany, and the inhabitants

were dispersed in four villages, under the yoke of the

inflexible conqueror.' But Milan soon rose from her

ashes; and the league of Lombardy was cemented by

c The Lombards invented and used the cuneinm, a standard planted on a car or

waggon, drawn by a team of oxen. (Ducange, torn. 2. p. 194, 195. Muratori,

Antiquitat. torn. X. dis. 36. p. 489 — 493.)

•• Gunther Ligurinus, lib. 8. 584, et seq. apud Schmidt, torn. S. p. 399.

1 Solus imperator faciem suam firmavit ut petrarn. (Bucard. de Excidio Mcdio-

lani, Script , Ital. torn. 6. p. 917.) This volume of Muratori contains tbe
originals

of the history of Frederic I. which must be compared with due regard to the
cir­

cumstances and prejudices of each German or Lombard writer.

