CHAP. L. 341

they assign the last and most humble place to the hus­

band of Fatima, in the persuasion that the order of suc­

cession was determined by the degrees of sanctity.m An

historian who balances the four caliphs with a hand un­

shaken by superstition, will calmly pronounce, that their

manners were alike pure and exemplary; that their zeal

was fervent, and probably sincere; and that, in the midst

of riches and power, their lives were devoted to the prac­

tice of moral and religious duties. But the public vir­

tues of Abubeker and Omar, the prudence of the first, the

severity of the second, maintained the peace and pros­

perity of their reigns. The feeble temper and declining

age of Othman were incapable of sustaining the weight

of conquest and empire. He chose, and he was deceived;

he trusted, and he was betrayed; the most deserving of

the faithful became useless or hostile to his government,

and his lavish bounty was productive only of ingratitude

and discontent. The spirit of discord went forth in the

provinces, their deputies assembled at Medina, and the

Charegites, the desperate fanatics who disclaimed the

yoke of subordination and reason, were confounded

among the free-born Arabs, who demanded the redress

of their wrongs and the punishment of their oppressors.

From Cufa, from Bassora, from Egypt, from the tribes of

the desert, they rose in arms, encamped about a league from

Medina, and dispatched a haughty mandate to their so­

vereign, requiring him to execute justice, or to descend

from the throne. His repentance began to disarm and

disperse the insurgents; but their fury was rekindled by

the arts of his enemies; and the forgery of a perfidious

secretary was contrived to blast his reputation and preci­

pitate his fall. The caliph had lost the only guard of his

m This gradation of merit is distinctly marked in a creed, illustrated by
Reland;

(de Relig. Mohamrn. lib. 1. p. 37.) and a Sonnite argument inserted by
Ocfcley.

(Hist, of the Saracens, torn. 2. p. f30.) The practice of cursing the memory
of

Ali was abolished, after forty years, by the Ommiades themselves; (d'Herbelot,

p. 690.) and there are few among the Turks who presume to revile him as an in-

fiM. (Voyages de Chardin, torn. 4. p. 46.)

