420 ROMAN EMPIRE.

thousand baths of the city; and such was their incredi­

ble multitude, that six months were barely sufficient for

the consumption of this precious fuel. Since the dy­

nasties of Abulpharagius" have been given to the world

in a Latin version, the tale has been repeatedly tran­

scribed; and every scholar, with pious indignation, has

deplored the irreparable shipwreck of the learning, the

arts, and the genius, of antiquity. For my own part, I

am strongly tempted to deny both the fact and the con­

sequences. The fact is indeed marvellous. Read and

wonder! says the historian himself: and the solitary

report of a stranger who wrote at the end of six hundred

years on the confines of Media, is overbalanced by the

silence of two annalists of a more early date, both Chris­

tians, both natives of Egypt, and the most ancient of

whom, the patriarch Eutychius, has amply described the

conquest of Alexandria.11 The rigid sentence of Omar

is repugnant to the sound and orthodox precept of the

Mahometan casuists: they expressly declare that the

religious books of the Jews and Christians, which are

acquired by the right of war, should never be committed

to the flames; and that the works of profane science,

historians or poets, physicians or philosophers, may be

lawfully applied to the use of the faithful.0 A more

destructive zeal may perhaps be attributed to the first

successors of Mahomet: yet in this instance, the con­

flagration would have speedily expired in the deficiency

of materials. I shall not recapitulate the disasters of

the Alexandrian library, the involuntary flame that was

kindled by CaBsar in his own defence/ or the mischievous

» Abulpharag. Dynast, p. 114. vers. Pocock. Audi quid factum sit et mirare.

It would be endless to enumerate the modems who have wondered and believed,

but I may distinguish with honour the rational scepticism of Renaudot: (Hist.

Alex. Patriarch, p. 170.) historia habet aliquid «riarw ut Arabibus familiare
est.

b This curious anecdote will be vainly sought in the annals of Eutychius and
the

Saracenic history of Elmacin. The silence of Abulfeda, Murtadi, and a crowd of

Moslems, is less conclusive from their ignorance of Christian literature.

* See Reland, de Jure Militari Mohammedanorum, in his third volume of Dis­  
sertations, p. 37. The reasons for not burning the religious books of the Jew
s

Christians, is derived from the respect that is due to the namt of God.

* Consult the collections of Frensheim (Supplement. Livum. c. 12. 43.) and

