310 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the words and looks of the prophet, by the eagerness

with which they collected his spittle, a hair that drop­

ped on the ground, the refuse water of his lustrations,

as if they participated in some degree of the prophetic

virtue. / have seen (said he) the Chosroes of Persia and

the Ccesar of Rome, but never did I behold a king among

his subjects like Mahomet among his companions. The

devout fervour of enthusiasm acts with more energy and

truth than the cold and formal servility of courts.

He de' In the state of nature every man has a right to

ciares war defend, by force of arms, his person and his pos-

agamst . J 'l r

the infi- sessions; to repel, or even to prevent, the vio­

lence of his enemies, and to extend his hostili­

ties to a reasonable measure of satisfaction and retalia­

tion. In the free society of the Arabs, the duties of

subject and citizen imposed a feeble restraint; anot Ma­

homet, in the exercise of a peaceful and benevolent mis­

sion, had been despoiled and banished by the injustice

of his countrymen. The choice of an independent peo­

ple had exalted the fugitive of Mecca to the rank of a

sovereign; and he was invested with the just preroga­

tive of forming alliances, and of waging offensive or de­

fensive war. The imperfection of human rights was sup­

plied and armed by the plenitude of divine power: the

prophet of Medina assumed, in his new revelations, a

fiercer and more sanguinary tone, which proves that his

former moderation was the effect of weakness :b the means

of persuasion had been tried, the season of forbearance was

elapsed, and he was now commanded to propagate his re­

ligion by the sword, to destroy the monuments of idola­

try, and without regarding the sanctity of days ormonths,

to pursue the unbelieving nations of the earth. The

same bloody precepts, so repeatedly inculcated in the

Koran, are ascribed by the author to the Pentateuch and

h The eighth and ninth chapters of the Koran are the loudest and most
vehement;

and Maracci (Prodromus, part 4. p. 59—64.)has inveighed with more justice than

discretion against the double dealing of the impostor.

