CHAP. XLIX. 225

the air that the default of payment had been the cause

of the last scarcity.1 The literary merits of Charlemagne

are attested by the foundation of schools, the introduc­

tion of arts, the works which were published in his name,

and his familiar connexion with the subjects and strangers

whom he invited to his court to educate both the prince

and people. His own studies were tardy, laborious, and

imperfect; if he spoke Latin, and understood Greek, he

derived the rudiments of knowledge from conversation,

rather than from books; and, in his mature age, the em­

peror strove to acquire the practice of writing, which

every peasant now learns in his infancy .k The grammar

and logic, the music and astronomy, of the times, were

only cultivated as the handmaids of superstition: but the

curiosity of the human mind must ultimately tend to its

improvement, and the encouragement of learning reflects

the purest and most pleasing lustre on the character of

Charlemagne.1 The dignity of his person,™ the length

of his reign, the prosperity of his arms, the vigour of his

government, and the reverence of distant nations, distin­

guish him from the royal crowd; and Europe dates a

new era from his restoration of the western empire.

That empire was not unworthy of its title;" and

1 Omnishomo ex sua proprietate legitimam decimam ad ecclesiam conferat , Ex-

perimento eiiim didicimus, in anno, quo ilia validn fames irrepsit, ebullire
vacuas

annonas a dzmonibus devgratas, et voces exprobatiouis auditas. Such is the
decree

and assertion of the great council of Frankfort, (canon 25. torn. 9. p. 105.)
Both

Selden (Hist, of Tithes; Works, vol. $. part 2. p. 1146.) and Montesquieu.
(.Esprit

des Lou, lib. 31. c. 12.) represent Charlemagne as the first legal author of
tithes.

Such obligations have country gentlemen to his memory!

k Eginhard (c. 25. p. 119.) clearly affirms, tentabat et scribere . . . sed pa
turn

prospere successit labor pteposterus et sero inchoatus. The moderns have per­

verted and corrected this obvious meaning, and the title of M. Gaillard's
Disser-

tation (torn. 3. p. 247—260.) betrays his partiality.

1 See Gaillard, torn. 3. p. 138—176. and Schmidt, torn. *. p. 121—129.

• M. Gaillaid (torn. S. p. 373.) fixes the true stature of Charlemagne (sec a
Dis.

serial ion of Marquard Freher adcalcem Eginhart, p. 220, &c.) at five feetnine
inches

of French, about six feet one inch and a fourth English measure. The romance

writers have increased it to eight feet, and the giant was endowed with
matchless

strength and appetite: at a single stroke of his good sword Joyeuu, he cut
asunder

a horseman and his horse; at a single repast he devoured a goose, two fowls, a

quarter of mutton, &c.

° See the concise, but correct and original, work of d'Anville (Etats fomv'-s
en

Europe npres la Chute de 1'Empire Remain en Occident, Paris 1771, in quarto;,

whose map includes the empire of Charlemagne: the different parts are
illustrated,

by Valesius (Notitia Galliarum) for France, Beretti (Dissertatio
Chorographica)

VOL. VI. Q

