508 ROMAN EMPIRE.

emir. / have brought you to a land flowing with milk

and honey. Here is your true country; repose from

your toils, and forget the barren place of your nativity.

—And our wives and children ?—Your beauteous captives

will supply the place of your wives, and in their embraces

you will soon become the fathers of a new progeny. The

first habitation was their camp, with a ditch and ram­

part, in the bay of Suda; but an apostate monk led

them to a more desirable position in the eastern parts;

and the name of Candax, their fortress and colony, has

been extended to the whole island, under the corrupt

and modern appellation ofCandia. The hundred cities

of the age of Minos were diminished to thirty; and of

these, only one, most probably Cydonia, had courage to

retain the substance of freedom and the profession of

Christianity. The Saracens of Crete soon repaired the

loss of their navy; and the timbers of mount Ida were

launched into the main. During a hostile period of one

hundred and thirty-eight years, the princes of Constan­

tinople attacked these licentious corsairs with fruitless

curses and ineffectual anns.

and of The loss of Sicily" was occasioned by an act

SicUy, Of superstitious rigour. An amorous youth,

827—878. who had stolen a nun from her cloister, was sen­

tenced by the emperor to the amputation of his tongue.

Euphemius appealed to the reason and policy of the

Saracens of Africa; and soon returned with the imperial

purple, a fleet of one hundred ships, and an army of

seven hundred horse and ten thousand foot. They land­

ed at Mazara near the ruins of the ancient Selinus; but

after some partial victories, Syracuse" was delivered by

"Art:; (says the continuator of Theophanes, lib. 2. p. 61.) Ji twra.
a-n^trrart

n&t orXarDWTfpor ft TOTI y£*if,I(cra ©foywwTw jtai Kf 2C1'£*? ^-'J'a *f*m.
This history

of the loss of Sicily is no longer extant. Muratori (Annali d'ltalia, torn. 7.
p. 7.19.

21, &c.) has added some circumstances from the Italian chronicles.

0 The splendid and interesting tragedy of Tancredc would adapt itself much
better

to this epoch, than to the date (A. D. 1005.) which Voltaire himself has
chosen.

But I must gently reproach the poet, for infusing into the Greek subjects the
spirit

of modem knights and ancient republicans.

