423 ROMAN EMPIRE.

The pre- standard was followed by one hundred and twenty

feoct ^ thousand men, the regular bands of the empire must

his daugh- have been lost in the naked and disorderly crowd

of Africans and Moors, who formed the strength,

or rather the numbers, of his host. He rejected with in足

dignation the option of the Koran or the tribute; and

during several days, the two armies were fiercely engaged

from the dawn of light to the hour of noon, when their

fatigue and the excessive heat compelled them to seek

shelter and refreshment in their respective camps. The

daughter of Gregory, a maid of incomparable beauty and

spirit, is said to have fought by his side: from her earli足

est youth she was trained to mount on horseback, to draw

the bow, and to wield the scimitar: and the richness of

her arms and apparel was conspicuous in the foremost

ranks of the battle. Her hand, with a hundred thousand

pieces of gold, was offered for the head of the Arabian

general, and the youths of Africa were excited by the

prospect of the glorious prize. At the pressing solicita足

tion of his brethren, Abdallah withdrew his person from

the field; but the Saracens were discouraged by the re足

treat of their leader, and the repetition of these equal or

unsuccessful conflicts.

v. . A noble Arabian, who afterward became the

Victory

of the adversary of Ali and the father of a caliph, had

signalized his valour in Egypt; and Zobeir4 was

the first who planted a scaling-ladder against the walk

of Babylon. In the African war he was detached from

the standard of Abdallah. On the news of the battle,

Zobeir, with twelve companions, cut his way through the

camp of the Greeks, and pressed forward, without tasting

either food or repose, to partake of the dangers of his

brethren. He cast his eyes round the field. Where

* See in Ockley (Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 3. p. 45.) the death of Zobeir, which  
was honoured with the tears of Ali, against whom he had rebelled. Hit valour
at

the siege of Babylon, if indeed it be the same person, is mentioned by
Eutychius.

( Annal.torn. 2. p. 308.)

