20 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Blessed Virgin he revered as the mother of Christ, but

his ears were offended with the rash and recent title of

mother of God,1 which had been insensibly adopted since

the origin of the Arian controversy. From the pulpit

of Constantinople, a friend of the patriarch, and after­

ward the patriarch himself, repeatedly preached against

the use or the abuse, of a word™ unknown to the apos­

tles, unauthorized by the church, and which could only

tend to alarm the timorous, to mislead the simple, to

amuse the profane, and to justify, by a seeming resem­

blance, the old genealogy of Olympus." In his calmer

moments Nestorius confessed, that it might be tolerated

or excused by the union of the two natures, and the

communication of their idioms:0 but he was exasperated,

by contradiction, to disclaim the worship of anew-born,

an infant Deity, to draw his inadequate similes from the

conjugal or civil partnerships of life, and to describe the

manhood of Christ as the robe, the instrument, the taber­

nacle of his Godhead. At these blasphemous sounds,

the pillars of the sanctuary were shaken. The unsuc­

cessful competitors of Nestorius indulged their pious or

personal resentment, the Byzantine clergy was secretly

displeased with the intrusion of a stranger: whatever

is superstitious or absurd, might claim the protection

C — Deipara: as in zoology we familiarly speak of oviparous and vivipa­

rous animals. It is not easy to fix the invention of this word , which La
Croze (Chris-

lianisme de» Indes, torn. 1. p. 16.) ascribes to Eusebius of Caesarea and the
Arians.

The orthodox testimonies are produced by Cyril and Petavius ; (Dogmat.
Theolog.

torn. 5. lib. 5. c. 15. p. 254, ficc.) but the veracity of the saint is
questionable, and

the epithet of SIOTMOC so easily slides from the margin to the text of a
Catholic MS.

"Basnage, in his Histoire de 1'Eglise, a work of controversy, (torn. 1. p.
505.)

justifies the mother, by the blood of God. (Acts xx. 28. with Mill's various
read­

ings.) But the Greek MSS. are far from unanimous; and the primitive style of

the blood of Christ is preserved in the Syriac version, even in those copies
which

were used by the Christians of St. Thomas on the coast of Malabar. (La Croze,

'Christianisme des Indes, torn. 1. p. 547.) The jealousy of the Nestorians and

Monophysites has guarded the purity of their text.

"The Pagans of Egypt already laughed at the new Cybele of the Christians;

(Isidor. lib. 1. epist. 54.) a letter was forged in the name of Hypatia, to
ridicule

the theology of her assassin. (Synodicon, c. 216. in 4 torn. Concil. p. 484.)
In the

article of NEsToRIUs, Bayle has scattered some loose philosophy on the worship

of the Virgin Mary.

"The am)on; of the Greeks, a mutual loan or transfer of the idioms or proper­

ties of each nature to the other — of infinity to man, possibility to God,&c.
Twelve

rules on this nicest of subjects compose the Theological Grammar of Petavius,

(Dogmata Theolog. torn. 5. lib*, c. 14, 15. p. 209,&c.)

