238 ROMAN EMPIRE.

rejected by the applause or clamour of the Roman

people. But the election was imperfect; nor could

the pontiff be legally consecrated till the emperor, the

advocate of the church, had graciously signified his

approbation and consent The royal commissioner

examined, on the spot, the form and freedom of the

proceedings: nor was it, till after a previous scrutiny

into the qualifications of the candidates that he accepted

an oath of fidelity, and confirmed the donations which

had successively enriched the patrimony of St. Peter.

In the frequent schisms, the rival claims were submit­

ted to the sentence of the emperor, and in a synod of

bishops he presumed to judge, to condemn, and to

punish, the crimes of a guilty pontiff. Otho I. imposed

a treaty on the senate and people, who engaged to pre­

fer the candidate most acceptable to his majesty;ra his

successors anticipated or prevented their choice: they

bestowed the Roman benefice, like the bishoprics of

Cologne or Bamberg, on their chancellors or precep­

tors: and whatever might be the merit of a Frank or

Saxon, his name sufficiently attests the interposition of

foreign power. These acts of prerogative were most

speciously excused by the vices of a popular election.

The competitor who had been excluded by the cardi­

nals, appealed to the passions or avarice of the multi­

tude: the Vatican and the Lateran were stained with

blood; and the most powerful senators, the marquises

of Tuscany and the counts of Tusculum, held the apos-

tolic see in a long and disgraceful servitude.

The Roman pontiffs, of the ninth and tenth

centuries, were insulted, imprisoned, and murdered, by

The cardinal-bishops, so highly exalted by Peter Damianus, are sunk to a level

with the rest of the sacred college.

'" Firmiter jurantes,nunquam se papam electuros ant ordinaturos, prater
censen-

simi et electionem Othonis et filii sin. (Liutprand, lib. 6. c. 6. p. 472.)
This import­

ant concession may either supply or confirm the decree of the clergy and
people of

Rome, sO fiercely rejected by Baronius, Fagi, and Muratori, (A. J). 964.) a»d
so

well defended and explained by St. Marc. (Abreg£, torn. 2. p. 80S—816. torn.
4.

p. 1167—1185.) Consult that historical critic, and the annals of Muratori, for

the election and confirmation of each pope.

