418 ROMAN EMPIRE.

men, the Saracens prevailed: the Greeks embarked their

dispirited and diminished numbers, and the standard of

Mahomet was planted on the walls of the capital of

Egypt. / have taken (said Amrou to the caliph) the

great city of the west. It is impossible for me to enu­

merate the variety of its riches and beauty; and I shall

content myself with observing, that it contains four thou­

sand palaces, four thousand baths, four hundred theatres

or places of amusement, twelve thousand shops for the sale

of vegetable food, and forty thousand tributary Jews.

The town has been subdued by force of arms, without

treaty or capitulation, and the Moslems are impatient to

seise the fruits of their victory.1 The commander of the

faithful rejected with firmness the idea of pillage, and

directed his lieutenant to reserve the wealth and revenue

of Alexandria for the public service and the propagation

of the faith: the inhabitants were numbered; a tribute

was imposed; the zeal and resentment of the Jacobites

were curbed, and the Melchites, who submitted to the

Arabian yoke, were indulged in the obscure but tranquil

exercise of their worship. The intelligence of this dis­

graceful and calamitous event afflicted the declining

health of the emperor; and Heraclius died of a dropsy

about seven weeks after the loss of Alexandria/ Under

the minority of his grandson, the clamours of a people,

deprived of their daily sustenance, compelled the By­

zantine court to undertake the recovery of the capital of

Egypt. In the space of four years, the harbour and

fortifications of Alexandria were twice occupied by a

fleet and army of Romans. They were twice expelled

by the valour of Amrou, who was recalled by the do­

mestic peril from the distant wars of Tripoli and Nubia.

But the facility of the attempt, the repetition of the in-

1 Eutych. Anna1, torn. 2. p. 316. 319.

J Notwithstanding some inconsistencies of Theophanes and Cedrenus, the ac­

curacy of Pagi (Critica, torn. 2. p. 824.) has extracted from Nicephorus and
the

Chronicon Orientale the true date of the death of Heraclius, February 11, A.
D.

641; fifty Jays after the loss of Alexandria. A fourth of that time was
sufficient to

convey the intelligence.

