2b'2 ROMAN EMPIRE.

ported above seventy miles from the gardens of Tayef.

The fame and spirit of the Koreishites, who reigned in

Mecca, were conspicuous among the Arabian tribes; but

their ungrateful soil refused the labours of agriculture,

and their position was favourable to the enterprises of

trade. By the seaport of Gedda, at the distance

only of forty miles, they maintained an easy cor­

respondence with Abyssinia; and that Christian king­

dom afforded the first refuge to the disciples of Maho­

met. The treasures of Africa were conveyed over the

peninsula to Gerrha or Katiff, in the provinceof Bahrein,

a city built, as it is said, of rock-salt, by the Chaldean

exiles :* and from thence, with the native pearls of the Per­

sian gulf, they were floated on rafts to the mouth of the

Euphrates. Meccais placed almost at an equal distance,

amonth's journey, between Yemen on the right, and Syria

on the left, hand. The former was the winter, the latter

the summer, station of her caravans; and their seasonable

arrival relieved the ships of India from the tedious and

troublesome navigation of the Red sea. In the markets

of Saana and Merab, in the harbours of Oman and Aden,

the camels of the Koreishites were laden with a precious

cargo of aromatics; a supply of corn and manufactures

was purchased in the fairs of Bostra and Damascus; the

lucrative exchange diffused plenty and riches in the

streets of Mecca; and the noblest of her sons united

the love of arms with the profession of merchandise."

National The perpetual independence of the Arabs has

eMaPofnd been the theme of praise among strangers and

the Arabs, llgjives. anj ^e arts Of controversy transform

this singular event into a prophecy and a miracle, in

favour of the posterity of Ismael.* Some exceptions

'Strabo, lib. 16. p. 1110. See one of these salt-houses near Bassora. in
d'Her-

belot, Bibliot . Orient . p. 6.

"Mirum diem ex innumerii populis para aequain commerces aut in latrodniii de-

git. (Plin. Hist. Nat . 6. 32.) See Hide's Koran, Sural. 106. p. 503. Pocock.
Speci­

men, p. 2. d'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 361. Prideaux's Life of Mahomet, p.
5.

Cagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 72. 120.126, &c.

* A nameless doctor (Universal Hist. vol. 20. octavo edition) has formally demon-  
ii rat til the truth of Christianity by the independence of the Arabs. A
critic, besides

