CHAP. LI. 417

by the peculiar fame and fertility of Egypt. Anxious

for the ruin or expulsion of their tyrants, the faithful

natives devoted their labours to the service of Amrou;

some sparks of martial spirit were perhaps rekindled by

the example of their allies; and the sanguine hopes of

Mokawkas had fixed his sepulchre in the church of St.

John of Alexandria. Eutychius the patriarch observes,

that the Saracens fought with the courage of lions; they

repulsed the frequent and almost daily sallies of the

besieged, and soon assaulted in their turn the walls and

towers of the city. In every attack, the sword, the ban­

ner of Amrou, glittered in the van of the Moslems. On

a memorable day, he was betrayed by his imprudent

valour: his followers who had entered the city were

driven back; and the general, with a friend and a slave,

remained a prisoner in the hands of the Christians.

When Amrou was conducted before the prefect, he re­

membered his dignity and forgot his situation: a lofty

demeanour, and resolute language, revealed the lieute­

nant of the caliph, and the battle-axe of a soldier was

already raised to strike off the head of the audacious

captive. His life was saved by the readiness of his slave,

who instantly gave his master a blow on the face, and

commanded him, with an angry tone, to be silent in the

presence of his superiors. The credulous Greek was

deceived; he listened to the offers of a treaty, and his

prisoners were dismissed in the hope of a more respect­

able embassy, till the joyful acclamations of the camp

announced the return of their general, and insulted the

folly of the infidels. At length, after a siege of four­

teen months," and the loss of three and twenty thousand

* Both Eutychius (Annal. torn. 2. p. 319.) and Elmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 28.)  
concur in fixing the taking of Alexandria to Friday of the new moon of
Moharram

of the twentieth year of the Hegira. (December 24. A. D. 640.) In reckoning

backwards fourteen months spent before Alexandria, seven months before
Babylon,

&c. Amrou might have invaded Egypt about the end of the year 638; but we are

assured that he entered the country the twelfth of Bayni, sixth of June.
(Murtadi,

Merveilles de 1'Egyple, p. 164. Severus, apud Renaudot, p. 162.) The Saracen,

and afterward Louis IX. of France, halted at Pelusium, or Damietta, during the

season of the inundation of the Nile.

VOL. VI. 2 E

