186 ROMAN EMPIRE.

tion of six months the three hundred and thirty-eight

bishops pronounced and subscribed a unanimous decree

that all visible symbols of Christ, except in the eucharist,

were either blasphemous or heretical; that image-wor足

ship was a corruption of Christianity and a renewal of

Paganism; that all such monuments of idolatry should

be broken or erased; and that those who should refuse

to deliver the objects of their private superstition, were

guilty of disobedience to the authority of the church and

of the emperor. In their loud and loyal acclamations,

they celebrated the merits of their temporal redeemer;

and to his zeal and justice they intrusted the execution

of their spiritual censures. At Constantinople, as in the

former councils, the will of the prince was the rule of

episcopal faith; but, on this occasion, I am inclined to

suspect, that a large majority of the prelates sacrificed

their secret conscience to the temptations of hope and

Thei, fear. In the long night of superstition, the

creed. Christians had wandered far away from the

simplicity of the gospel: nor was it easy for them to

discern the clue, and tread back the mazes, of the

labyrinth. The worship of images was inseparably

blended, at least to a pious fancy, with the cross, the

Virgin, the saints, and their relics: the holy ground

was involved in a cloud of miracles and visions; and

the nerves of the mind, curiosity and scepticism, were

benumbed by the habits of obedience and belief. Con-

stantine himself is accused of indulging a royal licence

to doubt, to deny, or deride, the mysteries of the Catho足

lics," but they were deeply inscribed in the public and

private creed of his bishops; and the boldest Icono足

clast might assault with a secret horror, the monuments

of popular devotion, which were consecrated to the ho足

nour of his celestial patrons. In the reformation of the

a He is accused of proscribing the title of saint; styling the Virgin, mother
of

Ckritt; comparing her after her delivery to an empty purse; of Arianism,
Nesto-

rianism, &c. lu his defence, Spanheim (c. 4. p. 207.) is somewhat embarrassed

between the interest of a Protestant and the duty of an orthodox divine.

