318 ROMAiN EMPIRE.

Jews were dragged in chains to the market-place of the

city: they descended alive into the grave prepared for

their execution and burial; and the apostle beheld with

an inflexible eye the slaughter of his helpless enemies.

Their sheep and camels were inherited by the Mussul­

mans: three hundred cuirasses, five hundred pikes, a

thousand lances, composed the most useful portion of

the spoil. Six days'journey to the north-east of Medina,

the ancient and wealthy town of Chairbar was the seat

of the Jewish power in Arabia; the territory, a fertile

spot in the desert, was covered with plantations and

cattle, and protected by eight castles, some of which

were esteemed of impregnable strength. The forces of

Mahomet consisted of two hundred horse and fourteen

hundred foot: in the succession of eight regular and

painful sieges they were exposed to danger, and fatigue,

and hunger; and the most undaunted chiefs despaired

of the event. The apostle revived their faith and cou­

rage by the example of Ali, on whom he bestowed the

surname of the Lion of God: perhaps we may believe

that a Hebrew champion of gigantic stature was cloven

to the chest by his irresistible scimitar; but we cannot

praise the modesty of romance, which represents him as

tearing from its hinges the gate of a fortress, and wield­

ing the ponderous buckler in his left hand." After the

reduction of the castles, the town of Chaibar submitted

to the yoke. The chief of the tribe was tortured, in the

presence of Mahomet, to force a confession of his hidden

treasure: the industry of the shepherds and husband­

men was rewarded with a precarious toleration: they

were permitted, so long as it should please the con­

queror, to improve their patrimony, in equal shares, for

his emolument and their own. Under the reign of

Omar, the Jews of Chaibar were transplanted to Syria;

1 Aba Rafe, the servant of Mahomet, is said to affirm that he himself, and
seven

other men, afterward tried, without success, to move the same gate from the

ground. (Abulfedn, p. 90.) Abu Rafe was an eye-witness, but who will be
witness

for Abu Rafe? •

