302 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Mahomet The first and most arduous conquests of Ma-

Kehccsa, hornet' were those of his wife, his servant, his

A.D. cos. pupil, and his friend;" since he presented him­

self as a prophet to those who were most conversant

with his infirmities as a man. Yet Cadijah believed the

words, and cherished the glory of her husband; the ob­

sequious and affectionate Zeid was tempted by the pros­

pect of freedom: the illustrious Ali, the son of Abu

Taleb, embraced the sentiments of his cousin with the

spirit of a youthful hero; and the wealth, the moderation,

the veracity of Abubeker, confirmed the religion of the

prophet whom he was destined to succeed. By his

persuasion, ten of the most respectable citizens of Mecca

were introduced to the private lessons of Islam; they

yielded to the voice of reason and enthusiasm; they re­

peated the fundamental creed,—There is but one God,

and Mahomet is the apostle of God; and their faith, even

in this life, was rewarded with riches and honours, with

ideas of the Magi are darkly and doubtfully explored by their apologist. Dr.

Hyde. (Hist. Religionis Persarum, c. 32. p. 402— 412. Oion. 1760.) la the

article of Mahomet, Bayle has shewn how indifferently wit and philosophy
supply

<he absence of general information.

1 Before I enter into the history of the prophet, it is incumbent on me to
produce

my evidence. The Latin, French, and English versions of the Koran, are pre­

ceded by historical discourses, and the three translators, Maracci (torn. 1.
p. 10—

32.) Savary, (torn. 1. p. 1—248.) and Sale, (Preliminary Discourse, p. 33—56.)

Jbad accurately studied the language and character of their author. Two
ptofessed

lives of Mahomet have been composed by Dr. Prideaux ( Life of Mahomet, seventh

edition, London, 1718, in octavo) and the oonnt de BoulainvilKere (Vie da Ma­

homed. Londres, 1730, in octavo); Imt the adverse wish of 6nding an impostor,

or a hero, has too often corrupted the learning of the doctor and the
ingenuity of

the count. The article in d'Herbelot (Bibliot. Orient, p.598—603.) is chiefly

drawn from Novairi and Mircond; but the best and most authentic of our guides

is M. Gagnier, a Frenchman by birth, and professor at Oxford of the oriental

tongues. In two elaborate works, (Ismael Abulfeda de Vita et Rebus gestis

Mohammedis, &c. Latine vertit, 1'r.i fationc et Notis illustravit Johannes
Gagnier,

Oxon. 1723, in folio; La Vie de Mahomet traduite et compile de 1'Alcoran, ies

Traditions authentiques de la Sonna et des meilleurs Auteurs Arabes;
Amsterdam,

1748,3 vols. in duodecimo,) he has interpreted, illustrated, and supplied the
Arabic

text of Abulfeda and Al Jannabi; the first, an enlightened prince, who reigned
at

Hamah, in Syria, A.D. 1310—1332; (see Gagnier Prafat. ad Abnlfed.) the

second, a credulous doctor, who visited Mecca, A. D. 1556. (D'Herbelot, p.
397.

Gagnier, torn. 3. p. 209, 210.) Thesearemy general vouchers, and the
inquisitive

reader may follow the order of time, and the division of chapters. Yet I must

observe, that both Abulfeda and Al Jannabi are modern historians, and that
they

cannot appeal to any writers of the first century of the Hegira.

"After the Greeks, Prideaux (p. 8.) discloses the secret doubts of the wife of

Mahomet. As if he had been a privy-counsellor of the prophet, Bonlanvillien

(li.v'T'j. &c.) unfolds the sublime and patriotic views of Cadijah and the
fret

disciples.

