CHAP. XLIX. 231

to the riches of the south. The three and thirty cam­

paigns laboriously consumed in the woods and morasses

of Germany, would have sufficed to assert the amplitude

of his title by the expulsion of the Greeks from Italy

and the Saracens from Spain. The weakness of the

Greeks would have ensured an easy victory: and the

holy crusade against the Saracens would have been

prompted by glory and revenge, and loudly justified by

religion and policy. Perhaps, in his expeditions beyond

the Rhine and the Elbe, he aspired to save his monarchy

from the fate of the Roman empire, to disarm the ene­

mies of civilized society, and to eradicate the seed of

future emigrations. But it has been wisely observed,

that in a light of precaution, all conquest must be in­

effectual, unless it could be universal; since the increas­

ing circle must be involved in a larger sphere of hosti­

lity.2 The subjugation of Germany withdrew the veil

which had so long concealed the continent or island of

Scandinavia from the knowledge of Europe, and awaken­

ed the torpid courage of their barbarous natives. The

fiercest of the Saxon idolaters escaped from the Christian

tyrant to their brethren of the north; the ocean and

Mediterranean were covered with their piratical fleets;

and Charlemagne beheld with a sigh the destructive

progress of the Normans, who, in less than seventy

years, precipitated the fall of his race and monarchy.

His sue- Had the pope and the Romans revived the

cessom, primitive constitution, the titles of emperor and

814—887, Augustus were conferred on Charlemagne for

the term of his life; and his successors, on each

; vacancy, must have ascended the throne by a

formal or tacit election. But the association of

his son Lewis the Pious asserts the independent right

of monarchy and conquest, and the emperor seems on

1 Gaillard, torn. 2. p. 361—365. 471—476. 494. I have borrowed his judicious

remarks on Charlemagne's plan of conquest, and the judicious distinction of
his

enemies of Che first and the second enceinte, (torn. 2. p. 184.509, &c.)

