466 ROMAN EMPIRE.

servation of the native tongue reveals the descent of the

Mahometans of Persia/ In the mountains and deserts,

an obstinate race of unbelievers adhered to the supersti­

tion of their fathers; and a faint tradition of the Magian

theology is kept alive in the province of Kirman, along

the banks of the Indus, among the exiles of Surat, and

in the colony which, in the last century, was planted by

Shaw Abbas at the gates of Ispahan. The chief pontiff

has retired to mount Elbourz, eighteen leagues from the

city of Yezd: the perpetual fire (if it continue to burn)

is inaccessible to the profane; but his residence is the

school, the oracle, and the pilgrimage, of the Ghebers,

whose hard and uniform features attest the unmingled

purity of their blood. Under the jurisdiction of their

elders, eighty thousand families maintain an innocent and

industrious life; their subsistence is derived from some

curious manufactures and mechanic trades; and they

cultivate the earth with the fervour of a religious duty.

Their ignorance withstood the despotism of Shaw Abbas,

who demanded with threats and tortures the prophetic

books of Zoroaster; and this obscure remnant of the Ma-

gians is spared by the moderation or contempt of their

present sovereigns.'

The northern coast of Africa is the only land

and fail of in which the light of the gospel, after a long

antyta an(^ Perfect establishment, has been totally ex-

Africa, tinguished. The arts, which had been taught

by Carthage and Rome, were involved in a cloud of

ignorance; the doctrine of Cyprian and Augustin was

no longer studied. Five hundred episcopal churches

1 The last Magian of name and power appears to be Mardavige the Dilemite

who, in the beginning of the tenth century, reigned in the northern provinces
of

Persia, near,the Caspian sea. (D'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p.'335.) But his

soldiers and successors, the BoiriJa, either professed or embraced the
Mahometan

faith; and under their dynasty (A.D. 933—1020.) I should place the fall of the

religion of Zoroaster.

r The present state of the Gbebera in Persia is taken from Sir John Chardin,

not indeed the most learned, but the most judicious and inquisitive, of our
modern

travellers. (Voyages in Perse, torn. 3. p. 109. 179—187. in quarto.) His bre­

thren, Pietro de la Valle, Clearius, Thevenot, Tavemier, &c. whom I hare
fruit­

lessly searched, had neither eyes nor attention for this intereeting people.

