CHAP. XLIX. 249

field. The temporal power of the clergy was cherished

and exalted by the superstition or policy of the Carlovin-

gian and Saxon dynasties, who blindly depended on their

moderation and fidelity; and the bishoprics of Ger­

many were made equal in extent and privilege, superior

in wealth and population, to the most ample states of

the military order. As long as the emperors retained the

prerogative of bestowing on every vacancy these eccle­

siastic and secular benefices, their cause was maintained

by the gratitude or ambition of their friends and favour­

ites. But in the quarrel of the investitures, they were

deprived of their influence over the episcopal chapters;

the freedom of election was restored, and the sovereign

was reduced by a solemn mockery, to his first prayers,

the recommendation, once in his reign, to a single pre­

bend in each church. The secular governors, instead

of being recalled at the will of a superior, could be de­

graded only by the sentence of their peers. In the first

age of the monarchy, the appointment of the son to the

dutchyor county of his father, was solicited as a favour;

it was gradually obtained as a custom, and extorted as a

right: the lineal succession was often extended to the

collateral or female branches; the states of the empire

(their popular, and at length their legal appellation) were

divided and alienated by testament and sale; and all idea

of a public trust was lost in that of a private and perpe­

tual inheritance. The emperor could not even be en­

riched by the casualties of forfeiture and extinction:

within the term of a year, he was obliged to dispose of the

vacant fief, and in the choice of the candidate, it was his

duty to consult either the general or the provincial diet.

TheOer- After the death of Frederic II. Germany was

mamccon- left a monster with a hundred heads. A crowd

stitution, ...

A. c. 1250. of princes and prelates disputed the ruins of

the empire; the lords of innumerable castles were less

prone to obey, than to imitate, their superiors; and ac­

cording to the measure of their strength, their incessant

hostilities received the names of conquest or robbery.

