CHAP. LII. 483

arms, are inferior to our own." If you follow my advice

(replied the prudent mayor of the palace), you will not

interrupt, their march, nor precipitate your attack. They

are like a torrent, which it is dangerous to stem in its

career. The thirst of riches, and the consciousness of

success, redouble their valour, and valour is of more avail

than arms or numbers. Be patient till they have loaded

themselves with the incumbrance of wealth. This pos足

session of wealth will divide their counsels, and assure

your victory." This subtle policy is perhaps a refine足

ment of the Arabian writers; and the situation of

Charles will suggest a more narrow and selfish motive of

procrastination; the secret desire of humbling the pride,

and wasting the provinces, of the rebel duke of Aquitain.

It is yet more probable, that the delays of Charles were

inevitable and reluctant. A standing army was unknown

under the first and second race: more than half the

kingdom was now in the hands of the Saracens: accord足

ing to their respective situation, the Franks of Neustria

and Austrasia were too conscious or too careless of the

impending danger; and the voluntary aids of the Ge-

pidae and Germans were separated by a long interval

from the standard of the Christian general. No sooner

had he collected his forces, than he sought and found

the enemy in the centre of France, between Tours and

Poitiers. His well-conducted march was covered by a

range of hills, and Abderame appears to have been sur足

prised by his unexpected presence. The nations of Asia,

Africa, and Europe, advanced with equal ardour, to an

encounter which would change the history of the world.

In the six first days of desultory combat, the horsemen

and archers of the east maintained their advantage: but

in the closer onset of the seventh day, the orientals were

oppressed by the strength and stature of the Germans,

who, with stout hearts and iron hands'1, asserted the civil

h Gens Austris membrorum pre-eminentii valida, el gens Germanacorde etcor-

ppre praestantissima, quasi in ictfl oculi manfl ferreaet pectore arduo Arabes
cx-

tinxerunt. (Roderic. T'oletan. c. 14.)

2 i 2

