443 ROMAN EMPIRE.

sovereign in arms, he sought the aid of a foreign power;

and his rash invitation of the Moors and Arabs produced

the calamities of eight hundred years. In his epistles,

or in a personal interview, he revealed the wealth and

nakedness of his country; the weakness of an unpopular

prince; the degeneracy of an effeminate people. The

Goths were no longer the victorious barbarians who had

humbled the pride of Rome, despoiled the queen of

nations, and penetrated from the Danube to the Atlantic

ocean. Secluded from the world by the Pyrennean

mountains, the successors of Alaric had slumbered in a

long peace; the walls of the cities were mouldered into

dust: the youth had abandoned the exercise of arms;

and the presumption of their ancient renown would ex­

pose them in a field of battle to the first assault of the

invaders. The ambitious Saracen was fired by the ease

and importance of the attempt; but the execution was

delayed till he had consulted the commander of the

faithful; and his messenger returned with the permis­

sion of Walid to annex the unknown kingdoms of the

west to the religion and throne of the caliphs. In his

residence of Tangier, Musa, with secrecy and caution,

continued his correspondence and hastened his prepa­

rations. But the remorse of the conspirators was sooth­

ed by the fallacious assurance, that he should content

himself with the glory and spoil, without aspiring to

establish the Moslems beyond the sea that separates

Africa from Europe.'

1 The orientals, Elmacin, Abulpharagius, Abulfeda, pass over the conquest of

Spain in silence, or with a single word. The text of Novairi, and the other
Ara­

bian writers, is represented, though with some foreign alloy, by M. de
Cardooue.

(Hist, de 1'Afrique et de 1'Espagne sous la Domination des Arabee, Paris,
1765,

three vols. in duodecimo, torn. 1.p. 55—114.) and more concisely by M. de

Guignes. (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 34?—350.) The librarian of the Escurial

has not satisfied my hopes: yet he appears to have searched with diligence his

broken materials; and the history of the conquest is illustrated by some
valuable

fragments of the genuine Raiis,(who wrote at Corduba, A.H. 300.) of Ben Hazil,

&c. See Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. ?. p. 32. 105, 106. 182. 352.
319—•333.

On this occasion, the industry of Pagi has been aided by the Arabic learning

of his friend the abb£ de Longuerue, and to their joint labours I am deeply

indebted.

