372 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of prosperity and peace; and his dominion was acknow­

ledged by forty-four hordes of the barbarians of Tartary.

His last garrisons of Cashgar and Khoten maintained

a frequent intercourse with their neighbours of the Jax-

artes and Oxus; a recent colony of Persians had intro­

duced into China the astronomy of the Magi; and Tait-

song might be alarmed by the rapid progress and

dangerous vicinity of the Arabs. The influence and

perhaps the supplies of China revived the hopes of Yez-

degerd and the zeal of the worshippers of fire; and he

returned with an army of Turks to conquer the inheri­

tance of his fathers. The fortunate Moslems, without

unsheathing their swords, were the spectators of his ruin

and death. The grandson of Chosroes was betrayed by

his servant, insulted by the seditious inhabitants ofMerou,

and oppressed, defeated, and pursued by his barbarian

allies. He reached the banks of a river, and offered his

rings and bracelets for an instant passage in a miller's

boat. Ignorant or insensible of royal distress, the rustic

replied, that four drachms of silver were the daily profit

of his mill, and that he would not suspend his work un­

less the loss were repaid. In this moment of hesitation

and delay, the last of the Sassanian kings was overtaken

and slaughtered by the Turkish cavalry in the nineteenth

year of his unhappy reign.p His son Firuz, an humble

client of the Chinese emperor, accepted the station of

captain of his guards; and the Magian worship was long

preserved by a colony of loyal exiles in the province of

Bucharia. His grandson inherited the regal name; but

after a faint and fruitless enterprise, he returned to China,

and ended his days in the palace of Sigan. The male

line of the Sassanides was extinct; but the female cap­

tives, the daughters of Persia, were given to the conque­

rors in servitude, or marriage: and the race of the caliphs

P I hare endeavoured to harmonize the various narratives of Elmacin, (Ili-i.

Saracen, p. 37.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 116.) Abulfeda, (Annal. p. 74.
79.)

and d'Herbelot. (p. 485.) The end of Yezdegerd was not only unfortunate, but

obscure.

