CHAP. LI. . 385

the battle. Her first arrow pierced the hand of his

standard-bearer: her second wounded Thomas in the

eye; and the fainting Christians no longer beheld their

ensign or their leader. Yet the generous champion of

Damascus refused to withdraw to his palace: his wound

was dressed on the rampart; the fight was continued till

the evening; and the Syrians rested on their arms. In

the silence of the night, the signal was given by a stroke

on the great bell; the gates were thrown open, and each

gate discharged an impetuous column on the sleeping

camp of the Saracens. Caled was the first in arms; at

the head of four hundred horse he flew to the post of

danger, and the tears trickled down his iron cheeks, as

he uttered a fervent ejaculation. O God! who never

deepest, look upon thy servants, and do not deliver them

into the hands of their enemies. The valour and victory

of Thomas were arrested by the presence of the sword of

God; with the knowledge of the peril, the Moslems re­

covered their ranks, and charged the assailants in the

flank and rear. After the loss of thousands, the Chris­

tian general retreated with a sigh of despair, and the

pursuit of the Saracens was checked by the military en­

gines of the rampart.

The city After a siege of seventy days," the patience,

by'storm and perhaps the provisions, of the Damascenes

and capi- were exhausted; and the bravest of their chiefs

tulation,

A.D.654. submitted to the hard dictates of necessity. In

the occurrences of peace and war, they had been taught

to dread the fierceness, of Caled, and to revere the mild

virtues of Abu Obeidah. At the hour of midnight, one

hundred chosen deputies of the clergy and people were

0 Abulfeda allows only seventy days for the siege of Damascus (Annal. Moslem.

p. 67. vers. Keiske) ; but Elmacin, who mentions this opinion, prolongs the
term to

•U months, and notices the use of balistic by the Saracens. (Hist. Saracen, p.
25.32.)

Even this longer period ia insufficient to fill the interval between the
battle of Aiz-

naditi (July, A. D. 633.) and the accession of Omar, (24th July, A. D. 634.)
to

whose reign the conquest of Damascus is un;uu m < msl y ascribed. ( AI Wakidi,
apud

Ockley, vol. 1. p. 115. Abulpharagiue, Dynast, p. 112. vers. Pocock.) Perhaps,

as in the Trojan war, the operations were interrupted by excursions and
detach-

nents, till the last seventy days of the siege.

VOL. VI. 2 C

