CHAP. LII. 501

but we may form a less fanciful estimate of their general

knowledge of anatony,x botany/ and chemistry," the

threefold basis of their theory and practice. A super­

stitious reverence for the dead confined both the Greeks

and the Arabians to the dissection of apes and quadru­

peds; the more solid and visible parts were known in the

time of Galen, and the finer scrutiny of the human frame

was reserved for the microscope and the injections of

modern artists. Botany is an active science, and the

discoveries of the torrid zone might enrich the herbal of

Dioscorides with two thousand plants. Some traditionary

knowledge might be secreted in the temples- and monas­

teries of Egypt; much useful experience had been ac­

quired in the practice of arts and manufactures; but the

science of chemistry owes its origin and improvement to

the industry of the Saracens. They first invented and

named the alembic for the purposes of distillation, ana­

lyzed the substances of the three kingdoms of nature,

tried the distinction and affinities of alkalis and acids,

and converted the poisonous minerals into soft and sa­

lutary medicines. But the most eager search of Ara­

bian chemistry was the transmutation of metals, and the

elixir of immortal health: the reason and the fortunes of

thousands were evaporated in the crucibles of alchymy,

and the consummation of the great work was promoted

by the worthy aid of mystery, fable, and superstition.

Want of But the Moslems deprived themselves of the

tMMMBnd Prmcipal benefits of a familiar intercourse with

freedorn. Greece and Rome, the knowledge of antiquity,

* See a good view of the progress of anatomy in Wolton. (Reflections on an­  
cient and modern Learning, p. 2OB—266.) His reputation has been unworthily

depreciated by the wits in the controversy of Boyle and Bentley.

J Bibliot. Arab. Hispana, torn. l.p. 275. AlBeithar of Malaga, their greatest

botanist, had travelled into Africa, Persia, and India.

* Dr. Watson (Elements of Chemistry, vol. 1. p. 17, &c.) allows the original  
merit of the Arabians. Yet he quotes the modest confession of the famous Geber

of the ninth century, (d'Herbelot, p. 317.) that he had drawn most of his
science,

perhaps of the transmutation of metals, from the ancient sages. Whatever might

be the origin or extent of their knowledge, the arts of chemistry and alchymy
ap­

pear to have been known in Egypt at least three hundred years before Mahomet.

(Wotton's Reflections, p. 121—133. Fauw, Recherches sur les Egyptiens et les

Chinois, torn. 1 p. 376—'129.) •

