42 ROMAN EMPIRE,

death of holy), Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Hosts! is

A^D.Iwt9'supposed, by the Greeks, to be the identical

—SIB. hymn which the angels and cherubim eternally

repeat before the throne of God, and which, about the

middle of the fifth century, was miraculously revealed

to the church of Constantinople. The devotion of An-

tioch soon added, who was crucified for us.' and this

grateful address, either to Christ alone, or to the whole

Trinity, may be justified by the rules of theology, and

has been gradually adopted by the Catholics of the east

and west. But it had been imagined by a Monophysite

bishop :b the gift of an enemy was at first rejected as a

dire and dangerous blasphemy, and the rash innovation

had nearly cost the emperor Anastasius his throne and

his life.1 The people of Constantinople was devoid of

any rational principles of freedom; but they held, as

a lawful cause of rebellion, the colour of a livery in the

races, or the colour of a mystery in the schools. The

Trisagion, with and without this obnoxious addition,

was chanted in the cathedral by two adverse choirs, and,

when their 1 ungs were exhausted, they had recourse to

the more solid arguments of sticks and stones: the ag­

gressors were punished by the emperor, and defended

by the patriarch; and the crown and the mitre were

staked on the event of this momentous quarrel. The

streets were instantly crowded with innumerable swarms

of men, women, and children; the legions of monks, in

regular array, marched, and shouted, and fought at their

head,—Christians! this is the day of martyrdom; let us

not desert our spiritual father; anathema to the Mani-

chcean tyrant; he is unworthy to reign. Such was the

who was taken up into heaven before the bishop and people of Constantinople,

the song was considerably improved. The boy heard the angels sing " Holy God!

Holy Strong! Holy Immortal!

h Peter Guapheus, the fuller (a trade which he had exercised in his
monastery),

patriarch of Antioch. His tedious story is discussed in the Annals of Pagi,

(A. D. 477—490.) and a dissertation of M. de Valois at the end of his
Evagrius.

1 The troubles under the reign of Anastasius must be gathered from the
chronicles

of Victor, Marcelliuus, and Theophanes. As the last was not published in the

time of Baionius, his critic Fagi is more copius, as well as more correct.

