CHAP. X-LVII. 21

of the monks; and the people were interested in the glory

of their virgin patroness.1" The sermons of the archbi­

shop, and the service of the altar, were disturbed by se­

ditious clamour; his authority and doctrine were re­

nounced by separate congregations; every wind scatter­

ed round lie empire the leaves of controversy; and the

voice of the combatants on a sonorous theatre re-echoed

in the cells of Palestine and Egypt. It was the duty of Cy­

ril to enlighten the zeal and ignorance of his innumerable

monks; in the school of Alexandria, he had imbibed and

professed the incarnation of one nature: and the suc­

cessor of Athanasius consulted his pride and ambition,

when he rose in arms against another Arius, more for­

midable and more guilty, on the second throne of the

hierarchy. After a short correspondence, in which the

rival prelates disguised their hatred in the hollow lan­

guage of respect and charity, the patriarch of Alexan­

dria denounced to the prince and people, to the east

and to the west, the damnable errors of the Byzantine

pontiff. From the east, more especially from Antioch,

he obtained the ambiguous counsels of toleration and

silence, which were addressed to both parties while

they favoured the cause of Nestorius. But the Vatican

received with open arms the messengers of Egypt.

The vanity of Celestine was flattered by the appeal;

and the partial version of a monk decided the faith of

the pope, who, with his Latin clergy, was ignorant of

the language, the arts, and the theology of the Greeks.

At the head of an Italian synod, Celestine weighed the

merits of the cause, approved the creed of Cyril, con­

demned the sentiments and person of Nestorius, de­

graded the heretic from his episcopal dignity, allowed

a respite of ten days for recantation and penance, and

delegated to his enemy the execution of this rash and

illegal sentence. But the patriarch of Alexandria,

whilst he darted the thunders of a god, exposed the

P See Ducangc, C. P. Christiana, lib, 1. p. SO, &c.

