530 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Cretans was stimulated by the frequent aid of their bre­

thren of Africa and Spain; and, after the massy wall

and double ditch had been stormed by the Greeks, a

hopeless conflict was still maintained in the streets and

houses of the city. The whole island was subdued in

the capital, and a submissive people accepted, without

resistance, the baptism of the conqueror.1 Constanti­

nople applauded the long-forgotten pomp of a triumph;

but the imperial diadem was the sole reward that could

repay the services, or satisfy the ambition, of Nicephorus.

Theeastem After the death of the younger Romanus, the

conquests fourth in lineal descent of the Basilian race, his

of Nice- .'

phorus, widow Theophania successively married Nice-

andjohn phorus Phocas, and his assassin John Zimisces,

zimene., fae two heroes of the age. They reigned as

963—975. the guardians and colleagues of her infant sons;

and the twelve years of their military command form the

most splendid period of the Byzantine annals. The

subjects and confederates, whom they led to war, ap­

peared, at least in the eyes of an enemy, two hundred

thousand strong; and of these about thirty thousand

were armed with cuirasses :y a train of four thousand

mules attended their march; and then* evening camp

was regularly fortified with an enclosure of iron spikes.

A series of bloody and undecisive combats is nothing

more than an anticipation of what would have been ef­

fected in a few years by the course of nature; but I shall

briefly prosecute the conquests of the two emperors

from the hills of Cappadocia to the desert of Bagdad.

Conquest The sieges of Mopsuestia and Tarsus in Cilicia

ofCiiicia. first exercised the skill and perseverance of their

x A Greek life of St. Nicon, the Armenian, was found in the Sforza library,
and

translated into Latin by the Jesuit Sirmond for the use of cardinal Baronius.
This

contemporary legend casts a ray of light on Crete and Peloponnesus in the
tenth

century. He found the newly-recovered island, focdis detestandae Agarenorum
»u-

perstitionis vestigiis adhuc plenam ac refertam . . . but the victorious
missionary,

perhaps with some carnal aid, ad baptismum omnes veraque fidei disciplinam pe-

pulit. Ecclesiis per tntam insulam asdificatis, &c. (Annal. Eccles. A. D.
961.)

J l'.hiKirin, Ili;-i. Saracen, p. 278, 279. Liutprand was disposed to
depreciate the

Greek poa-er, yet he ownt that Nicephorus led against Assyria an army of
righiy

thousand men.

