150 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the two candidates were distinguished by the surnames

of Bryennius and Botaniates; the former in the matu­

rity of wisdojn and courage, the latter conspicuous only

by the memory of his past exploits. While Botaniates

advanced with cautious and dilatory steps, his active

competitor stood in arms before the gates of Constan­

tinople. The name of Bryennius was illustrious: his

cause was popular; but his licentious troops could not

be restrained from burning and pillaging a suburb; and

the people, who would have hailed the rebel, rejected

and repulsed the incendiary of his country. This change

of the public opinion was favourable to Botaniates, who

at length, with an army of Turks, approached the shores

ofChalcedon. A formal invitation, in the name of the

patriarch, the synod, and the senate, was circulated

through the streets of Constantinople; and the general

assembly, in the dome of St. Sophia, debated with

order and calmness, on the choice of their sovereign.

The guards of Michael would have dispersed this un­

armed multitude; but the feeble emperor, applauding

his own moderation and clemency, resigned the ensigns

of royalty, and was rewarded with the monastic habit,

and the title of archbishop of Ephesus. He left a son,

a Constantine, born and educated in the purple; and

a daughter of the house of Ducas illustrated the blood,

and confirmed the succession, of the Comnenian dy­

nasty.

John Comnenus, the brother of the emperor

Isaac, survived in peace and dignity his gene-

D. rous refusal of the sceptre. By his wife Anne,

a woman of masculine spirit and policy, he

left eight children; the three daughters multi­

plied the Comnenian alliances with the noblest of

the Greeks; of the five sons, Manuel was stopped by a

premature death; Isaac and Alexius restored the impe­

rial greatness of their house, which was enjoyed without

toil or danger by the two younger brethren, Adrian and

Nicephorus. Alexius, the third and most illustrious of

