512 ROMAN EMPIRE.

iron chain was drawn across the stream to impede the

ascent of a hostile navy. The Romans were assured of

a short respite by the welcome news, that the siege of

Gayeta had been raised, and that a part of the enemy,

with their sacrilegious plunder, had perished in the

waves.

Victory But the storm which had been delayed, soon

of ilo'fv. burst upon them with redoubled violence. The

A.D. 849. Aglabite,* who reigned in Africa, had inherited

from his fathers, treasure and an army: a fleet of Arabs

and Moors, after a short refreshment in the harbours of

Sardinia, cast anchor before the mouth of the Tyber, six­

teen miles from the city; and their discipline and num­

bers appeared to threaten, not a transient inroad, but a

serious design of conquest and dominion. But the vigi­

lance of Leo had formed an alliance with the vassals of

the Greek empire, the free and maritime states of Gayeta,

Naples, and Amaln; and in the hour of danger, their

galleys appeared in the port of Ostia, under the com­

mand of Caesarius, the son of the Neapolitan duke, a

noble and valiant youth, who had already vanquished

the fleets of the Saracens. With his principal com­

panions, Caesarius was invited to the Lateran palace, and

the dexterous pontiff" affected to inquire their errand,

and to accept with joy and surprise their providential

succour. The city bands, in arms, attended their father

to Ostia, where he reviewed and blessed his generous

deliverers. They kissed his feet, received the commu­

nion with martial devotion, and listened to the prayer of

Leo, that the same God who had supported St. Peter and

St. Paul on the waves of the sea, would strengthen the

hands of his champions against the adversaries of his

holy name. After a similar prayer, and with equal re­

solution, the Moslems advanced to the attack of the

'De Guignes, Hist. Generate des Huns, torn. 1. p. 363, 364. Cardonne, Hist,

de 1'Afrique et de 1'Espagne, sous la Domination des Arabes, torn. 2. p. 34,
S3.

I observe, and canuot reconcile, the difference of these writers in the
succession

of the Aplabites.

