CHAP. L. 269

are recorded by tradition: hostility was imbittered with

the rancour of civil faction: and the recital, in prose or

verse, of an obsolete feud, was sufficient to rekindle the

same passions among the descendants of the hostile

tribes. In private life, every man, at least every family,

was the judge and avenger of his own cause. The nice

sensibility of honour, which weighs the insult rather

than the injury, sheds its deadly venom on the quarrels

of the Arabs: the honour of their women, and of their

beards, is most easily wounded; an indecent action, a

contemptuous word, can be expiated only by the blood

of the offender; and such is their patient inveteracy,

that they expect whole months and years the opportu­

nity of revenge. A fine or compensation for murder is

familiar to the barbarians of every age: but in Arabia

the kinsmen of the dead are at liberty to accept the

atonement, or to exercise with their own hands the law

of retaliation. The refined malice of the Arabs refuses

even the head of the murderer, substitutes an innocent

to the guilty person, and transfers the penalty to the

best and most considerable of the race by whom they

have been injured. If he falls by their hands, they are

exposed in their turn to the danger of reprisals, the in­

terest and principal of the bloody debt are accumulated;

the individuals of either family lead a life of malice and

suspicion, and fifty years- may sometimes elapse before

the account of vengeance be finally settled.0 This

sanguinary spirit, ignorant of pity or forgiveness, has

been moderated, however, by the maxims of honour,

which require in every private encounter some decent

equality of age and strength, of numbers and weapons.

Annual An annual festival of two, perhaps of four, months,

trnce' was observed by the Arabs before the time of

the battles of the Arabs, lived in the ninth and tenth century. The famous war
of

Dalies and Gabrah was occasioned by two horses, lasted forty years, and ended

in a proverb. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 48.)

0 The modern theory and practice of the Arabs in the revenge of murder, are

described byNiebuhr. (Description, p. 26—51.) The harsher features of
antiquity

may be traced in the Koran, c. 3. p. 10. c. 17. p. ISO. with Sale's
observations.

