CHAP. LI. 453

with his two governments his two sons, Abdullah and

Abdelaziz. His long triumph, from Ceuta to Damas­

cus, displayed the spoils of Afric and the treasures of

Spain: four hundred Gothic nobles, with gold coronets

and girdles, were distinguished in his train: and the

number of male and female captives, selected for their

birth or beauty, was computed at eighteen, or even at

thirty, thousand persons. As soon as he reached Tibe­

rias in Palestine, he was apprized of the sickness and

danger of the caliph, by a private message from Soliman,

his brother and presumptive heir; who wished to reserve

for his own reign the spectacle of victory. Had Walid

recovered, the delay of Musa would have been criminal:

he pursued his march, and found an enemy on the throne.

In his trial before a partial judge, against a popular an­

tagonist, he was convicted of vanity and falsehood; and

a fine of two hundred thousand pieces of gold either ex­

hausted his poverty or proved his rapaciousness. The

unworthy treatment of Tarik was revenged by a similar

indignity; and the veteran commander, after a public

whipping, stood a whole day in the sun before the palace

gate, till he obtained a decent exile$ under the pious

name of a pilgrimage to Mecca. The resentment of the

caliph might have been satiated with the ruin of Musa,

but his fears demanded the extirpation of a potent and

injured family. A sentence of death was intimated with

secrecy and speed to the trusty servants of the throne

both in Africa and Spain: and the forms, if not the sub­

stance, of justice were superseded in this bloody execu­

tion. In the mosch or palace of Cordova, Abdelaziz

was slain by the swords of the conspirators; they accused

their governor of claiming the honours of royalty: and

his scandalous marriage with Egilona, the widow of Ro-

deric, offended the prejudices both of the Christians and

Moslems. By a refinement of cruelty, the head of the

son was presented to the father, with an insulting ques­

tion, whether he acknowledged the features of the rebel?

