178 ROMAN KM PI UK.

ginal were transferred to the copy: the devout Chris­

tian prayed before the image of a saint: and the Pagan

rites of genuflexion, luminaries, and incense, again stole

into the Catholic church. The scruples of reason or

piety, were silenced by the strong evidence of visions

and miracles; and the pictures which speak, and move,

and bleed, must be endowed with a divine energy, and

may be considered as the proper objects of religious

adoration. The most audacious pencil might tremble

in the rash attempt of denning, by forms and colours,

•the infinite Spirit, the eternal Father, who pervades and

sustains the universe.* But the superstitious mind was

more easily reconciled to paint and to worship the an­

gels, and, above all, the Son of God, under the human

shape, which, on earth, they have condescended to as­

sume. The second person of the Trinity had been

clothed with a real and mortal body; but that body had

ascended into heaven, and, had not some similitude

been presented to the eyes of his disciples, the spiritual

worship of Christ might have been obliterated by the

visible relics and representations of the saints. A simi­

lar indulgence was requisite, and propitious, for the

Virgin Mary: the place of her burial was unknown;

and the assumption of her soul and body into heaven

was adopted by the credulity of the Greeks and Latins.

The use, and even the worship, of images, was firmly

established before the end of the sixth century; they

tvere fondly cherished by the warm imagination of the

Greeks and Asiatics; the Pantheon and Vatican were

adorned with the emblems of a new superstition; but

this semblance of idolatry was more coldly entertained

by the rude barbarians and the Arian clergy of the west.

The bolder forms of sculpture, in brass or marble, which

- t ta.i xat

Oim *r.c\ iuu £bXii; tm tmnpunn xsi vrpxantyn furiaT ti/Lu» n/wic J it;.; a.*
=«i> . i Con c i'

lium Nicenum, 2. in Collect. Labb. torn. 8 p. 1025. edit Venet.) II seroit
peut£tre »•

propos dc tie point souffrir d'images de ):i Trinitc on de la Divinite ; les
defenrenn

les plus /el es dcs images ayant condamne cell es ci, et le concile de Trente
ne parlsnt

que dat images de Jesus Chrut et des wiim.s. (Dupin. Bibtiot. Eccles. torn. 6.
p. 1 54. >

