CHAP. LII. 490

Latin schools."1 The physics, both of the Academy and

the Lycaeum, as they are built, not on observation, but on

argument, have retarded the progress of real knowledge.

The metaphysics of infinite, or finite spirit, have too often

been enlisted in the service of superstition. But the hu­

man faculties are fortified by the art and practice of

dialectics; the ten predicaments of Aristotle collect and

methodize our ideas," and his syllogism is the keenest

weapon of dispute. It was dexterously wielded in the

schools of the Saracens, but as it is more effectual for the

detection of error than for the investigation of truth, it is

not surprising that new generations of masters and dis­

ciples should still revolve in the same circle of logical

argument. The mathematics are distinguished by a

peculiar privilege, that, in the course ages, they may

always advance, and can never recede. But the ancient

geometry, if I and not misinformed, was resumed in the

same state by the Italians of the fifteenth century; and

whatever may be the origin of the name, the science of

algebra is ascribed to the Grecian Diophantus by the

modest testimony of the Arabs themselves.0 They cul­

tivated with more success the sublime science of astro­

nomy, which elevates the mind of man to disdain his

diminutive planet and momentary existence. The costly

instruments of observation were supplied by the caliph

Almamon, and the land of the Chaldeans still afforded

the same spacious level, the same unclouded horizon. In

the plains of Sinaar, and a second time in those of Cufa,

his mathematicians accurately measured a degree of the

'" See Mosheim, Institut. Hist. Eccles. p. 181. 214. «36. 3o7. 315. 338. 396.

438, &c.

n The most elegant commentary on the Categories or Predicaments of Aru-

totle may be found in the Philosophical Arrangements of Mr. James Harris

(London, 1775, in octavo), who laboured to revive the studies of Grecian
litera­

ture and philosophy.

"Abulpharagius, Dynast, p. 81. f22. Bibliot . Arab. Hist. turn. 1. p. 370,
371.

In quern (says the primate of the Jacobites) si immiserit se lector, oceanum
hoc

in genere (algebra) inveniet . The time of Diophantus of Alexandria is
unknown,

but hiu six books are still extant, and have been illustrated by the Creek
Planudes

and the Frenchman Meziriac. (Fabric. Bibliot. Grac. torn. 4. p. 12—15.)

2 K 2

