322 ROMAN EMPIRE.

vowed to destroy, and whom the confederates of Tayef

had sworn to defend.0 Four thousand Pagans advanced

with secrecy and speed to surprise the conqueror; they

pitied and despised the supine negligence of the Koreish,

but they depended on the wishes, and perhaps the aid,

of a people who had so lately renounced their gods, and

bowed beneath the yoke of their enemy. The banners

of Medina and Mecca were displayed by the prophet; a

crowd of Bedoweens increased the strength or numbers

of the army, and twelve thousand Mussulmans enter­

tained a rash and sinful presumption of their invincible

strength. They descended without precaution into the

valley of Honain ; the heights had been occupied by the

archers and slingers of the confederates; their numbers

were oppressed, their discipline was confounded, their

courage was appalled, and the Koreish smiled at their

impending destruction. The prophet, on his white mule,

was encompassed by the enemies; he attempted to rush

against their spears in search of a glorious death: ten

of his faithful companions interposed their weapons and

their breasts; three of these fell dead at his feet. O my

brethren (he repeatedly cried with sorrow and indigna­

tion), I am the son of Abdullah, T am the apostle of

truth! O man stand fast in the faith! O God, send

down thy succour! His uncle Abbas, who like the heroes

of Homer, excelled in the loudness of his voice, made the

valley resound with the recital of the gifts and promises

of God: the flying Moslems returned from all sides to

the holy standard; and Mahomet observed with plea­

sure that the furnace was again rekindled: his conduct

and example restored the battle; and he animated his

victorious troops to inflict a merciless revenge on the

authors of their shame. From the field of Honain, he

marched without delay to the siege of Tayef, sixty miles

• The siege of Tayef, division of the spoil, &c. are related by Abulfeda, (p.
117

-,-l33.) and Gagnier, (torn. 3. p. 88—111.) It is Al Jannabi who mentions the  
engines and engineers of the tribe of Daws. The fertile spot of Tayef was sup­

posed to be a piece of the land of Syria detached and dropped in the preneral

"•lug*.

