CHAP. L. 277

and heroes; and the father of Mahomet himself was

devoted by a rash vow, and hardly ransomed for the

equivalent of a hundred camels. In the time of igno­

rance, the Arabs, like the Jews and Egyptians, abstained

from the taste of swine's flesh;g they circumcised'1 their

children at the age of puberty: the same customs, with­

out the censure or the precept of the Koran, have been

silently transmitted to their posterity and proselytes.

It has been sagaciously conjectured, that the artful le­

gislator indulged the stubborn prejudices of his coun­

trymen. It is more simple to believe that he adhered

to the habits and opinions of his youth, without fore­

seeing that a practice congenial to the climate of Mecca,

might become useless or inconvenient on the banks of

the Danube or the Volga.

Arabia was free: the adjacent kingdoms

Introdnc- J °

tionof the were shaken by the storms of conquest and ty­

ranny, and the persecuted sects fled to the hap­

py land where they might profess what they thought,

and practise what they professed. The religions of the

Sabians and Magians, of the Jews and Christians, were

disseminated from the Persian gulf to the Red sea. In

a remote period of antiquity, Sabianism was diffused

over Asia by the science of the Chaldeans' and the

arms of the Assyrians. From the observations of two

thousand years, the priests and astronomers of Baby­

lon11 deduced the eternal laws of nature and Providence.

r Suillis caroibus abstinent, says Solinus, (Polyhistor, c. 33.) who copies
Pliny,

(lib. 8. c. 68.) in the strange supposition, that hogs cannot live in Arabia.
The

Egyptians were actuated by a natural and superstitious horror for that unclean

beast. (Marsham, Canon, p. 205.) The old Arabians likewise practised, post
coi-

tum, the right of ablution, (Herodot. lib. 1. c. 80.) which is sanctified by
the Ma­

hometan law, (Reland, p. 75, &c. Chardin, or rather the Moiiah of Shaw Ab­

bas, torn. 4. p. 71, &c.)

'' The Mahometan doctors are not fond of the subject: yet they hold circumci­

sion necessary to salvation, and even pretend that Mahomet was miraculously

born without a foreskin. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 319, 320. Sales' Preliminary

Discourse, p. 106, 107.)

1 Diodorus Siculus (torn. 1. lib. 2. p. 149—145.) has cast on their religion
the

carious but superficial glance of a Greek. Their astronomy would be far more
va­

luable: they had looked through the telescope of reason, since they could
doubt

whether the sun were in the number of the planets or of the fixed stars.

k Simplicius (who quotes Porphyry) de Cielo, lib. 2. corn. 46. p. 123. lin.
18.

apud Marsham, Canon. Chion. p. 474. who doubts the fact, because it is advem

