CHAP. XLVII. 29

.with honour from Ephesus to his old monastery of

Antioch; and after a short pause, his successors, Max-

imian and Proclus, were acknowledged as the lawful

bishops of Constantinople. But in the silence of

the cell, the degraded patriarch could no longer resume

the innocence and security of a private monk. The

past he regretted, he was discontented with the pre­

sent, and the future he had reason to dread: the oriental

bishops successively disengaged their Yiause from his

unpopular name, and each day decreased the number

of the schismatics who revered Nestorius as the confes­

sor of the faith. After a residence at Antioch of four

years, the hand of Theodosius subscribed an edict,g

which ranked him with Simon the magician, proscribed

his opinions and followers, condemned his writings to

the flames, and banished his person first to Petra in

Arabia, and at length to Oasis, one of the islands of the

Libyan desert.h Secluded from the church and from

the world, the exile was still pursued by the rage of

bigotry and war. A wandering tribe of the Blemmyes

or Nubians invaded his solitary prison; in their retreat

they dismissed a crowd of useless captives; but no

sooner had Nestorius reached the banks of the Nile,

than he would gladly have escaped from a Roman and

orthodox city to the milder servitude of the savages.

His flight was punished as a new crime: the soul of the

patriarch inspired the civil and ecclesiastical powers of

Egypt; the magistrates, the soldiers, the monks, de-

appearance of a voluntary resignation, which is asserted by Ehed- Jesu, a
Nestorian

writer, apud Aaseman. Biblioth. Oriental, torn. 3. p. 299—302.

( See the imperial letters in the Acts of the Synod of Ephesus. (Concil. torn.

3. p. 1730—1735.) The odious name of Simonians, which was affixed to the
disci­

ples of this Tiynm&ws ^ifaffiiaXia;, was designed arf av oni&irt ffgo^Xndnrt;
aitaym viro-

fOxxo .nftufuu, rm ifut^nfULtm, aAi /UaTI ('•..;--~,: Ti/uxpia;, ftin Sarara;
CTI^IS-

iraf WTOJ^IW. Yet these were Christians! who differed only in names and in

shadows.

kThe metaphor of islands is applied by the grave civilians (Pandect, lib. 48.
tit.

22. leg. 7.) to those happy spots which are discriminated by water and verdure

from the Libyan sands. Three of these under the common name of Oasis, or

Alvahat—1. The temple of Jupiter Ammon. 2. The middle Oasis, three days'

journey to the west of Lycopolis. 3. The southern, where Nestorius was banish­

ed, in the first climate, and only three days'journey from the confines of
Nubia.

See a learned note of Michaelis. (ad Descript . ./Egypt. Abulfedn, p. 21—34.)

