328 ROMAN EMPIRE.

as they are named, and eleven women); minutely di­

rected the order of his funeral, and moderated the lamen­

tations of his weeping friends, on whom he bestowed the

benediction of peace. Till the third day before his

death, he regularly performed the function of public

prayer; the choice of Abubeker to supply his place, ap­

peared to mark that ancient and faithful friend as his

successor in the sacerdotal and regal office; but he pru­

dently declined the risk and envy of a more explicit no­

mination. At a moment when his faculties were visibly

impaired, he called for pen and ink to write, or more pro­

perly to dictate, a divine book, the sum and accomplish­

ment of all his revelations: a dispute arose in the cham­

ber, whether he should be allowed to supersede the au­

thority of the Koran; and the prophet was forced to re­

prove the indecent vehemence of his disciples. If the

slightest credit may be afforded to the traditions of his

wives and companions, he maintained, in the bosom of his

family, and to the last moments of his life, the dignity

of an apostle and the faith of an enthusiast; described

the visits of Gabriel, who bade an everlasting farewell

to the earth, and expressed his lively confidence, not only

of the mercy but of the favour of the Supreme Being.

In a familiar discourse he had mentioned his special pre­

rogative that the angel of. death was not allowed to take

his soul till he had respectfully asked the permission of

the prophet. The request was granted; and Mahomet

immediately fell into the agony of his dissolution: his

head was reclined on the lap of Ayesha, the best beloved

of all his wives: he fainted with the violence of pain;

recovering his spirits, he raised his eyes towards the roof

of the house, and with a steady look, though a faltering

voice, uttered the last broken, though articulate, words.

O God! pardon my sins! Yes, ... /

come> among my fellow citizens on high; and thus

peaceably expired on a carpet spread upon the.floor. An

expedition for the conquest of Syria was stopped by this

