414 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the same revolution was renewed by a similar cause:

and in the support of an incomprehensible creed, the

zeal of the Coptic Christians was equally ardent. I

have already explained the origin and progress of the

Monophysite controversy, and the persecution of the

emperors, which converted a sect into a nation, and

alienated Egypt from their religion and government.

The Saracens were received as the deliverers of the Ja­

cobite church; and a secret and effectual treaty was

opened during the siege of Memphis between a victorious

army and a people of slaves. A rich and noble Egyp­

tian, of the name of Mokawkas, had dissembled his faith

to obtain the administration of his province; in the dis­

orders of the Persian war he aspired to independence;

the embassy of Mahomet ranked him among princes; but

he declined, with rich gifts and ambiguous compliments,

the proposal of a newreligion.q The abuse of his trust ex­

posed him to the resentment of Heraclius; his submission

was delayed by arrogance and fear; and his conscience

was prompted by interest to throw himself on the favour

of the nation and the support of the Saracens. In his

first conference with Amrou, he heard without indigna­

tion the usual option of the Koran, the tribute, or the

sword. The Greeks (replied Mokawkas) are determined

to abide the determination of the sword; but with the

Greeks I desire no communion, either in this world or in

the next, and I abjure for ever the Byzantine tyrant, hit

synod of Chalcedon, and his Melchite slaves. For my­

self and my brethren, we are resolved to live and die in

the profession of the gospel and unity of Christ. It

is impossible for us to embrace the revelations ofyourpro­

tom. 2. p. 774. Mentor. Sicul. torn. 3. lib. 17. p. 197. edit. Wesseling. Tm
ni:-

ra na-iBwTort tit TO !•{»i says the last of these historians.

i Mokawkas sent the prophet two Coptic damsels, with two maids, and one eu­

nuch, an alabaster vase, an ingot of pure gold, oil, honey, and the finest
white linen

locations,

year of the

*56. 303.) from Al Jannabi.

