CHAP. XLIX 233

most dexterously seized the occasion of judging the

claims and merits of the candidates, and of bestowing

on the most obsequious, or most liberal, the imperial

office of advocate of the Roman church. The dregs of

the Carlovingian race no longer exhibited any symp­

toms of virtue or power, and the ridiculous epithets of

the bald, the stammerer, the fat, and the simple, dis­

tinguished the tame and uniform features of a crowd of

kings alike deserving of oblivion. By the failure of the

collateral branches, the whole inheritance devolved to

Charles the Fat, the last emperor of his family; his in-

Division sanity authorized the desertion of Germany,

^^ Italy, and France: he was deposed in a diet,

A.D. asa, an(l solicited his daily bread from the rebels by

whose contempt his life and liberty had been spared.

According to the measure of their force, the governors,

the bishops, and the lords, usurped the fragments of the

falling empire; and some preference was shewn to the

female or illegitimate blood of Charlemagne. Of the

greater part, the title and possession were alike doubt­

ful, and the merit was adequate to the contracted scale

of their dominions. Those who could appear with an

army at the gates of Rome were crowned emperors in

the Vatican, but their modesty was more frequently sa­

tisfied with the appellation of kings of Italy; and the

whole term of seventy-four years may be deemed a va­

cancy, from the abdication of Charles the Fat to the

establishment of Otho I.

otho king Othob was of the noble race of the dukes of

ofGennany gaxony . and if he tru]v descended from Witti-

kin(^, tlie adversary and proselyte of Charle-

magne, the posterity of a vanquished people

b He was the son of ,Otho, the son of Ludolph, in whose favour the dutchy of

Saxony had been instituted, A. D. 858. Ruotgerus, the biographer of a St.
Bruno,

(Bibliot. BrunaviansE Catalog, torn 5. vol. 2. p. 679.) gives asplendid
character of

bis family. Atavorum atavi usque ad hominum memoriam omnes nobilissimi;

Eullisin eorura stripe ignotns, nullus degener facile reperitur. (apud
Struvium, Corp.

Hiat. German, p. 216.) Yet Gundling (in Hcnrico Aucupe) i s not satisfied of
his

descent from Wittikind.

