CHAP. L. 303

the command of armies, and the government of king­

doms. Three years were silently employed in the con­

version of fourteen proselytes, the first fruits of his mis­

sion; but in the fourth year he assumed the prophetic

office, and resolving to impart to his family the light of

divine truth, he prepared a banquet, a lamb, as it is said,

and a bowl of milk, for the entertainment of forty guests

of the race of Hashem. Friends and kinsmen (said Ma­

homet to the assembly), I offer you, and I alone can offer,

the most precious of gifts, the treasures of this world and

of the world to come. God has commanded me to call

you to his service. Who among you will support my

burden? Who among you will be my companion and my

vizir f" No answer was returned, till the silence of

astonishment, and doubt, and contempt, was at length

broken by the impatient courage of Ali, a youth, in the

fourteenth year of his age. O prophet, I am the man;

whosoever rises against thee, I will dash out his teeth,

tear out his eyes, break his legs, rip up his belly. O pro­

phet, I will be thy vizir over them. Mahomet accepted

his offer with transport, and Abu Taleb was ironically

exhorted to respect the superior dignity of his son. In

a more serious tone, the father of Ali advised his nephew

to relinquish his impracticable design. Spare your re­

monstrances (replied the intrepid fanatic to his-uncle and

benefactor), if they should place the sun on my right hand,

and the moon on my left, they should not divert me from

my course. He persevered ten years in the exercise of

his mission; and the religion which has overspread the

east and the west, advanced with a slow and painful pro­

gress within the walls of Mecca. Yet Mahomet enjoyed

the satisfaction of beholding the increase of his infant

congregation of Unitarians, who revered him as a pro­

phet, and to whom he seasonably dispensed the spiritual

nourishment of the Koran. The number of proselytes

* l>:n Hs portitor, bajuha, ontu/ereru ; end this plebeian name was transferred  
l.y JITI apt metaphor to the pillars of the state. (Gagnier, Not. ad Abalfed.
p. 19.)

I endeavour to preserve the Arabian idiom, as far as I can feel it myself, in
a

Latin or French translation.

