194 ROMAN EMPIRK.

earth, the apostle St. Peter, whose image you threaten

to destroy."3 The remote and interior kingdoms of the

west present their homage to Christ and his vicege­

rent: and we now prepare to visit one of their most

powerful monarchs, who desires to receive from our

hands the sacrament of baptism." The barbarians have

submitted to the yoke of the gospel, while you alone

are deaf to the voice of the shepherd. These pious

barbarians are kindled into rage; they thirst to avenge

the persecution of the east. Abandon your rash and

fatal enterprise; reflect, tremble, and repent. If you

persist, we are innocent of the blood that will be spilt

in the contest; may it fall on your own head."

Revolt of The first assault of Leo against the images of

A^.'T3B, Constantinople had been witnessed by a crowd

&c- of strangers from Italy and the west, who re­

lated with grief and indignation the sacrilege of the

emperor. But on the reception of his prescriptive

edict, they trembled for their domestic deities; the

images of Christ and the Virgin, of the angels, martyrs,

and saints, were abolished in all the churches of Italy;

and a strong alternative was proposed to the Roman

pontiff, the royal favour as the price of his compliance,

degradation and exile as the penalty of his disobedi­

ence. Neither zeal nor policy allowed him to hesitate;

and the haughty strain in which Gregory addressed

the emperor displays his confidence in the truth of his

doctrine or the powers of resistance. Without depend­

ing on prayers or miracles, he boldly armed against

the public enemy, and his pastoral letters admonished

the Italians of their danger and their duty.0 At this

m 'Ov of iffafai 0a7IXetat TIJ; )ysta; v( ®iov CTnyfiov f^owi.

"Awo n; tfttiym SWI*; TOU Xiyc/u«TO 2nrrrau. (p. 665.) The pope appean to

have imposed on the ignorance of the Greeks; he lived and died in the Lateran;

and in his time all the kingdoms of the west had embraced Christianity. May

not this unknown Scptetus have some reference to the chief of th Saxon
heptarchv,

to Ina, king of Wessex, who, in the pontificate of Gregory II. visited Rome
for

the purpose, not of baptism, but of pilgrimage? (Pagi, A. D. 689. no. 2. A.I).

726. no. 15.)

0 I shall transcribe the important and decisive passage of the Liber Potifica-

lis. Respiciens ergo pius vir profanam principis jussionem, jam contra Impera­

