366 ROMAN EMPIRE.

miles from the gulf, the Euphrates and Tigris unite in

a broad and direct current, which is aptly styled the river

of the Arabs. In the midway, between the junction

and the mouth of these famous streams, the new settle­

ment was planted on the western bank: the first colony

was composed of eight hundred Moslems: but the in­

fluence of the situation soon reared a flourishing aad po­

pulous capital. The air, though Excessively hot, is pure

and healthy: the meadows are filled with palm-trees

and cattle; and one of the adjacent valleys has been ce­

lebrated among the four paradises or gardens of Asia.

Foundation Under the first caliphs, the jurisdiction of this

of Bassora. Arabian colony extended over the southern pro­

vinces of Persia: the city has been sanctified by the

tombs of the companions and martyrs; and the vessels

of Europe still frequent the port of Bassora, as a conve­

nient station and passage of the Indian trade.

Sack of After the defeat of Cadesia, a country inter-

JU>.a637, sected by rivers and canals might have opposed

March, an insuperable barrier to the victorious cavalry;

and the walls of Ctesiphon or Madayn, which had re­

sisted the battering-rams of the Romans, would not have

yielded to the darts of the Saracens. But the flying

Persians were overcome by the belief, that the last day

of their religion and empire was at hand; the strongest

posts were abandoned by treachery or cowardice; and

the king, with a part of his family and treasures, escaped

to Holwan at the foot of the Median hills. In the third

month after the battle, Said, the lieutenant of Omar,

passed the Tigris without opposition; the capital was

taken by assault; and the disorderly resistance of the

people gave a keener edge to the sabres of the Moslems,

who shouted with religious transport,—This is the white

palace of Chosroes, this is the promise of the apostle of

God! The naked robbers of the desert were suddenly

enriched beyond the measure of their hope or know­

ledge. Each chamber revealed a new treasure secreted

