378 ROMAN EMPIRE.

drew their forces into the plain, and swore to die in the

defence of their religion. But a religion of peace was

incapable of withstanding the fanatic cry of Fight,Jight!

Paradise, paradise! that re-echoed in the ranks of the

Saracens; and theuproar of the town, the ringing of bells,'

and the exclamations of the priests and monks, increased

the dismay and disorder of the Christians. With the

loss of two hundred and thirty men, the Arabs remained

masters of the field; and the ramparts of Bosra, in expec­

tation of human or divine aid, were crowded with holy

crosses and consecrated banners. The governor Roma-

nus had recommended an early submission: despised by

the people, and degraded from his office, he still retain­

ed the desire and opportunity of revenge. In a noctur­

nal interview, he informed the enemy of a subterraneous

passage from his house under the wall of the city: the

son of the caliph, with a hundred volunteers, were com­

mitted to the faith of this new ally, and their successful

intrepidity gave an easy entrance to their companions.

After Caled had imposed the terms of servitude and tri­

bute, the apostate or convert avowed in the assembly of

the people his meritorious treason. / renounce your

society (said Romanus), both in this world, and the

world to come. And I deny him tliat was crucified, and

whosoever worships him. And I choose God for my

Lord, Islam for my faith, Mecca for my temple, the

Moslems for my brethren, and Mahomet for my pro­

phet; who was sent to lead us into the right way, and to

exalt the true religion in spite of those who join partners

with God.

The conquest of Bosra, four day's journey from Damas­

a The bells rung.' Ockley, vol. 1. p. 38. Vet I much doubt whether this
expres­

sion can be justified by the text of Al Wakidi, or the practice of the times.
Ad

Graces, says the learned Ducange, (Glossar. med. et in HIM. Grecitat. torn. 1.
p.

774.) campanarum usus serius transit et etiam num rarissimus est. Tin oldest

example winch he can find in the Byzantine writers in of the year 1040; but
the

Venetians pretend, that they introduced bells at Constantinople in the ninth

century.

