382 ROMAN EMPIRE.

his single lance maintained a flying fight against thirty

Romans, who were detached by Werdan ; and after kill­

ing or unhorsing seventeen of their number, Derar re­

turned in safety to his applauding brethren. When

his rashness was mildly censured by the general, he ex­

cused himself with the simplicity of a soldier. Nay

(said Derar), / did not begin first: but they came out to

take me, and I was afraid that God should see me turn

my back: and indeed I fought in good earnest, and with­

out doubt God assisted me against them; and had I not

been apprehensive of disobeying your orders, I should not

have'Come away as 1 did; and Iperceive already that they

will fall into our hands. In the presence of both armies, a

venerable Greek advanced from the ranks with a liberal

offer of peace; and the departure of the Saracens would

have been purchased by a gift to each soldier of a turban,

a robe, and a piece of gold; ten robes, and a hundred

pieces to their leader; one hundred robes, and a thou­

sand pieces to the caliph. A smile of indignation ex­

pressed the refusal of Caled. Ye Christian dogs, you

know your option: the Koran, the tribute, or the sword.

We are a people whose delight is in war, rather than in

peace; and we despise your pitiful alms; since we shaU

speedily be masters of your wealth, your families, and your

persons. Notwithstanding this apparent disdain, he

was deeply conscious of the public danger: those who

had been in Persia, and had seen the armies of Chos-

roes, confessed that they never beheld a more formidable

array. From the superiority of the enemy, the artful

Saracen derived a fresh incentive of courage. You see

before you (said he) the united force of the- Romans: you

cannot hope to escape, but you may conquer Syria in a

single day. The event depends on your discipline and pa­

tience. Reserve yourselves till the evening. It was in

the evening that the prophet was accustomed to vanquish.

During two successive engagements, his temperate firm­

ness sustained the darts of the enemy, and the murmurs

