CHAP. L. 259

dwelt under similar tents, and conducted their horses,

and camels, and sheep, to the same springs and the

same pastures. Our toil is lessened, and our wealth is

increased, by our dominion over the useful animals.'

and the Arabian shepherd had acquired the absolute

possession of a faithful friend and a laborious slave.1

Arabia, in the opinion of the naturalist, is the

The horse. . . r. ,

genuine and original country ot the horse; the

climate most propitious, not indeed to the size, but to

the spirit and swiftness, of that generous animal. The

merit of the Barb, the Spanish, and the English breed,

is derived from a mixture of Arabian blood ;m the Bedo-

weens preserve, with superstitious care, the honours and

the memory of the purest race; the males are sold at a

high price, but the females are seldom alienated; and

the birth of a noble foal was esteemed among the tribes

as a subject of joy and mutual congratulation. These

horses are educated in the tents, among the children of

the Arabs, with a tender familiarity, which trains them

in the habits of gentleness and attachment. They are

accustomed only to walk and to gallop: their sensations

are not blunted by the incessant abuse of the spur and

the whip: their powers are reserved for the moments of

flight and pursuit; but no sooner do they feel the touch

of the hand or the stirrup, than they dart away with the

swiftness of the wind; and if their friend be dismounted

in the rapid career, they instantly stop till he has re-

covered his seat. In the sands of Africa and

'Arabia, the camel, is a sacred and precious gift.

That strong and patient beast of burden can perform,

without eating and drinking, a journey of several days;

p. 327—,;.H. _) and Volney, (torn. 1. p. 343—385.) the last and most judicious
of

om Syrian travellers.

'Read (it is no unpleasant task) the incomparable articles of the horse and
the

esmet, in the Natural History of M. de Button. ,

10 For the Arabian horses, see d'Arvieux (p. 159—173.) and Niebuhr. (p. 112

—144.) At the end of the thirteenth century, the horses of Naged were esteemed

surefooted, those of Yemen strong and serviceable, those of Hejaz most uoble.
The

horses of Europe, the tenth and last class, were generally despised, as having
too

much body and too little spirit: (d'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 339.) their
strength

was requisite to bear the weight of the knight and his armour.

S 2

