374 ROiMAN EMPIRE.

the victorious Arabs. To their industry, the prosperity

of the province, the Sogdiana of the ancients, may in a

great measure be ascribed; but the advantages of the

soil and climate had been understood and cultivated

since the reign of the Macedonian kings. Before the

invasion of the Saracens, Carizme, Bochara, and Samar-

cand, were rich and populous under the yoke of the

shepherds of the north. These cities were surrounded

with a double wall; and the exterior fortification, of a

larger circumference, enclosed the fields and gardens of

the adjacent district. The mutual wants of India and

Europe were supplied by the diligence of the Sogdian

merchants; and the inestimable art of transforming linen

into paper, has been diffused from the manufacture of

Samarcand over the western world."

II. No sooner had Abubeker restored the unity

Invasion *

of Syria, of faith and government, than he dispatched a

'circular letter to the Arabian tribes.—In the name

of the most merciful God, to the rest of the true believers.

Health and happiness, and the mercy and blessing of God

be upon you. I praise the most high God, and I pray for

his prophet Mahomet. This is to acquaint you, that I

intend to send the true believers into Syria* to take it out

of the hands of the infidels. . And I would have you know,

that the fighting for religion is an act of obedience to God.

His messengers returned with the tidings of pious and

martial ardour which they had kindled in every province;

™ A curious description of Samarcand is inserted in the Bibliotheca Arabico-

Hispana, torn, 1. p. 308, &c. The librarian Casiri (torn. 2. 9.) relates, from
cre­

dible testimony, that paper was first imported from China to Samarcand, A. H.

3O, and invented, or rather introduced at Mecca, A. H. 88. The Escnrial
library

contains paper MSS. as old as the fourth or fifth century of the Hegira.

* A separate history of the conquest of Syria has been composed by AI Wakidi,  
cadi of Bagdad, who was bom A. D. 748, and died A. D. 822; he likewise wrote

the conquest of Egypt, of Diarbekir, &c. Above the meagre and recent
chronicles

of the Arabians, Al Wakidi has the double merit of antiquity and copiousness.

His tales and traditions afford an artless picture of the men and the times.
Yet

his narrative is too often defective, trifling, and improbable. Till something
better

shall be found, his learned and spirited interpreter, (Ockley, in his History
of the

Saracens, vol. 1. p. 21—342.) will not deserve the petulant animadversion of

Reiske. (Prodidagmata ad Hagji Chalifce Tabulas, p. 236.) I am sorry to think

that the labours of Ockley were consummated in a jail. (See his two prefaces
to

the first vol. A. D. 1708, to the second, 1718, with the list of authors at
the end.)

