340 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the third caliph, twenty-four years after the death of

the prophet, that All was invested, by the popular

choice, with the regal and sacerdotal office. The man­

ners of the Arabians retained their primitive simplicity,

and the son of Abu Taleb despised the pomp and vanity

of this world. At the hour of prayer, he repaired to

the mosch of Medina, clothed in a thin cotton gown, a

coarse turban on his head, his slippers in one hand, and

his bow in the other, instead of a walking staff. The

companions of the prophet and the chiefs of the tribes

saluted their new sovereign, and gave him their right

hands as a sign of fealty and allegiance.

Discord of The mischiefs that flow from the contests of

IndpJr-8 ambition are usually confined to the times and

Bums. countries in which they had been agitated. But

the religious discord of the friends and enemies of All

has been renewed in every age of the Hegira, and is still

maintained in the immortal hatred of the Persians and

Turks.k The former, who are branded with the appella­

tion of Shiites or sectaries, have enriched the Mahometan

creed with a new article of faith; and if Mahomet be

the apostle, his companion Ali is the vicar, of God. In

their private converse, in their public worship, they bit­

terly execrate the three usurpers who intercepted his in­

defeasible right to the dignity of imam and caliph; and

the name of Omar expresses in their tongue the perfect

accomplishment of wickedness and impiety.1 The Son-

nites, who are supported by the general consent and or­

thodox tradition of the Mussulmans, entertain a more

impartial, or at least a more decent, opinion. They re­

spect the memory of Abubeker, Omar, Othman, and Ali,

the holy and legitimate successors of the prophet. But

k The schism of the Persians is explained by all oar travellers of the last
century,

especially in the second and fourth volumes of their master, Chardin. Niebuhr,

though of infinite merit, has the advantage of writing so late as the year
1764,

(Voyages en Arabic, &c. torn. 2. p. 208—233.) since the ineffectual attempt of

Nadir Shah to change the religion of the nation. (See his Persian History
trans­

lated into French by sir William Jones, torn. 2. p. 5, 6. 47, 48. 144—155.)

1 Omar is the name of the devil: his murderer is a saint. When the Persians

?hoot with the bow, they frequently cry—" May this arrow go to the heart of

Omar!" (Voyages de Chardin, torn. 2. p. 239, 240. 259, &c.)

