CHAP. LI. 393

lous: the turrets glittered from afar; an ample space

was covered with public and private buildings; and the

citizens were illustrious by their spirit, or at least by their

pride, by their riches, or at least by their luxury. In

the days of Paganism, both Emesa and Heliopolis were

addicted to the worship of Baal, or the sun; but the

decline of their superstition and splendour has been

marked by a singular variety of fortune. Not a vestige

remains of the temple of Emesa, which was equalled in

poetic style to the summits of mount Libanus," while the

ruins of Baalbec, invisible to the writers of antiquity,

excite the curiosity and wonder of the European travel­

ler.1' The measure of the temple is two hundred feet in

length, and one hundred in breadth: the front is adorned

with a double portico of eight columns; fourteen may

be counted on either side; and each column, forty-five

feet in height, is composed of three massy blocks of stone

or marble. The proportions and ornaments of the Co­

rinthian order express the architecture of the Greeks;

but as Baalbec has never been the seat of a monarch,

we are at a loss to conceive how the expense of these

magnificent structures could be supplied by private or

municipal liberality.0 From the conquest of Damascus

• Emess fastigia celsa renident

Nam diffusa solo latus explicat; ac subit auras

Tunibus in ccelum nitentibus: incola Claris

Cor stndiis acuit ....

Denique flammicomo devoti pectora soli

Vitam agitant. Libanus frondosa cacnmina turget,

Et tamen his certant celsi fastigia templi.

These verses of the Latin version of Rufus Avienus are wanting in the Greek
ori­

ginal of Dionysius 1 and since they are likewise unnoticed by Eustathius, I
must,

with Fabricius (Bibliot. Latin, torn. 3. p. 153. edit. Erneeti), and against
Sahnasins,

(ad Vopiscum, p. 366,367. in Hist. August.) ascribe them to the fancy rather
than

to the MSS. of Avienus.

6 I am much better satisfied with Maundrell's slight octavo (Journey, p. 134—

139.) than with the pompous folio of Dr. Pocock; (Description of the East,
vol. 2.

p. 106—113.) but every preceding account is eclipsed by the magnificent,
descrip­

tion and drawings of MM. Dawkins and Wood, who have transported into Eng­

land the ruins of Palmyra and Baalbec.

c The orientals explain the prodigy by a never-failing expedient. The edifices
of

Baalbec were constructed by the fairies or the genii. (Hist, de Timour Bee,
torn.3.

lib. 5. c. 23. p. 311, 312. Voyage d'Otter, torn. 1. p. 83.) With less
absurdity, but

with equal ignorance, Abulfeda and Ibn Chaukel ascribe them to the Sabsans or

Aadites. Nonsunt inomni Syria sdificiamagnificentiorahis. (Tabula Syris, p.
103.)

