CHAP. XLVIII. 109

with which he repeopled Constantinople and the Thra-

cian cities. They reluctantly praise his activity and cou足

rage; he was on horseback in the field at the head of

his legions; and, although the fortune of his arms was

various, he triumphed by sea and land, on the Euphrates

and the Danube, in civil and barbarian war. Heretical

praise must be cast into the scale, to counterbalance the

weight of orthodox invective. The Iconoclasts revered

the virtues of the prince: forty years after his death, they

still prayed before the tomb of the saint. A miraculous

vision was propagated by fanaticism Or fraud; and' the

Christian hero appeared on a milk-white steed, brandish足

ing his lance against the Pagans of Bulgaria: an absurd

fable (says the Catholic historian), since Copronymus is

chained with the demons in the abyss of hell.

Leo IV. the son of the fifth, and the father of

A.D.775, the sixth Constantine, was of a feeble constitu-

pt" * *' tion both of mind and body, and the principal

care of his reign was the settlement of the succession.

The association of the young Constantine was urged

by the officious zeal of his subjects; and the emperor

conscious of his decay, complied, after a prudent hesi足

tation, with their unanimous wishes. The royal infant,

at the age of five years, was crowned with his mother

Irene; and the national consent was ratified by every

circumstance of pomp and .solemnity, that could dazzle

the eyes, or bind the conscience, of the Greeks. An

oath of fidelity was administered in the palace, the

church, and the hippodrome, to the several orders of the

state, who abjured the holy names of the son and mother,

of God. Be witness, O Christ! that we will watch over

the safety of Constantine the son of Leo, expose our lives

m his service, and bear true allegiance to his person and

posterity. They pledged their faith on the wood of the

true cross, and the act of their engagement was depo足

sited on the altar of St. Sophia. The first to swear, and

the first to violate their oath, were the five sons of Co-

