CHAP. L. 351

from a distance with a cloud of arrows, and the horses

and men were successively slain: a truce was allowed

on both sides for the hour of prayer; and the battle at

length expired by the death of the last of the companions

of Hosein. Alone, weary, and wounded, he seated him­

self at the door of his tent. As he tasted a drop of water,

he was pierced in the mouth with a dart; and his son

and nephew, two beautiful youths, were killed in his

arms. He lifted his hands to heaven; they were full of

blood, and he uttered a funeral prayer for the living and

the dead. In a transport of despair his sister issued from

the tent, and adjured the general of the Cufians, that he

would not suffer Hosein to be murdered before his eyes;

a tear trickled down his venerable beard; and the bold­

est of his soldiers fell back on every side as the dying

hero threw himself among them. The remorseless

Shamer, a name detested by the faithful, reproached

their cowardice; and the grandson of Mahomet was

slain with three-and-thirty strokes of lances and swords.

After they had trampled on his body, they carried his

head to the castle of Cufa, and the inhuman Obeidollah

struck him on the mouth with a cane. Alas! (exclaimed

an aged Mussulman) on these lips have I seen the lips of

the apostle of God! In a distant age and climate the

tragic scene of the death of Hosein will awaken the

sympathy of the coldest reader.' On the annual festival

of his martyrdom, in the devout pilgrimage to his se­

pulchre, his Persian votaries abandon their souls to the

religious frenzy of sorrow and indignation.'

, When the sisters and children of Ali were

rostenty of

Mahomet brought in chains to the throne of Damascus,

the caliph was advised to extirpate the enmity

• I have abridged the interesting narrative of Ockley. (torn. 2. p. 170—231

It is long and minute; but the pathetic, almost always, consists in the detail
of

little circumstances.

'Niebuhr the Dane (Voyages en Arabic, &c. torn. 2. p. 208, &c.) is perhaps the

only European traveller who has dared to visit Meshed Ali and Meshed Hosein.

The two sepulchres are in the hands of the Turks, who tolerate and tax the de­

votion of the Persian heretics. The festival of the death of Hosein is amply
de­

scribed by sir John Chardin, a traveller whom I have often praised.

