CHAP. LI. 399

the natives and strangers might feel some sparks of the

enthusiasm which so fiercely glowed in the bosoms of

the Saracens. The siege of Jerusalem lasted four

months; not a day was lost without some action of

sally or assault; the military engines incessantly played

from the ramparts; and the inclemency of the winter

was still more painful and destructive to the Arabs. The

Christians yielded at length to the perseverance of the

besiegers. The patriarch Sophronius appeared on the

walls, and by the voice of an interpreter demanded a

conference. After a vain attempt to dissuade the lieu­

tenant of the caliph from his impious enterprise, he pro­

posed, in the name of the people, a fair capitulation,

with this extraordinary clause, that the articles of secu­

rity should be ratified by the authority and presence of

Omar himself. The question was debated in the council

of Medina; the sanctity of the place, and the advice of

Ali, persuaded the caliph to gratify the wishes of his sol­

diers and enemies, and the simplicity of his journey is

more illustrious than the royal pageants of vanity and

oppression. The conqueror of Persia and Syria was

mounted on a red camel, which carried, besides his per­

son, a bag of corn, a bag of dates, a wooden dish, and

a leather bottle of water. Wherever he halted, the com­

pany, without distinction, was invited to partake of his

homely fare, and repast was consecrated by the prayer

and exhortation of the commander of the faithful.1 But

in this expedition of pilgriniage, his power was exer­

cised in the administration of justice; he reformed the

licentious polygamy of the Arabs, relieved the tributa­

ries from extortion and cruelty, and chastised the luxury

of the Saracens, by despoiling them of their rich silks,

and dragging them on their faces in the dirt. When

he came within sight of Jerusalem, the caliph cried with

1 The singular journey and equipage of Omar are described (besides Ockley,

»ol. 1. p. 250.) by Murtadi. (Merveillos de 1'Egypte, p. 200—202.)

