528 ROMAN EMPIRE.

mercenaries themselves? The African and the Turkish

guards drew their swords against each other, and the

chief commanders, the emirs al Omra,' imprisoned or

deposed their sovereigns, and violated the sanctuary of

the mosch and haram. If the caliphs escaped to the

camp or court of any neighbouring prince, their deliver­

ance was a change of servitude, till they were prompted

by despair to invite the Bowides, the sultans of Persia,

who silenced the factions of Bagdad by their irresistible

arms. The civil and military powers were assumed by

Moezaldowlat, the second of the three brothers, and a

stipend of sixty thousand pounds sterling was assigned

by his generosity for the private expense of the com­

mander of the faithful. But on the fortieth day, at the

audience of the ambassadors of Chorasan, and in the

presence of a trembling multitude, the caliph was drag­

ged from his throne to a dungeon, by the command of

the stranger, and the rude hands of his Dilemites. His

palace was pillaged, his eyes were put out, and the mean

ambition of the Abbassides aspired to the vacant station

of danger and disgrace. In the school of adversity, the

luxurious caliphs resumed the grave and abstemious vir­

tues of the primitive times. Despoiled of their armour

and silken robes, they fasted, they prayed, they studied

the Koran and the tradition of the Sonnites; they per­

formed with zeal and knowledge the functions of their

ecclesiastical character. The respect of nations still

waited on the successors of the apostle, the oracles of

the law and conscience of the faithful; and the weak­

ness or division of their tyrants sometimes restored the

Abbassides to the sovereignty of Bagdad. But their

misfortunes had been embittered by the triumph of the

Fatimites, the real or spurious progeny of Ali. Arising

• The office of vizier was superseded by the emir a 1 Omra Imperator
Imperatorum,

a title first instituted by Radhi, and which merged at length in the Bowides
and

Seljukides: vectigalibus, ettributis, et cnriis peromnes
regionesprsfecit.jussitque

in omnibus suggestis nominis PJUS in concionibus mentionem fieri.
(Abulpharagius,

Dynast, p. 190.) It is likewise mentioned by Elmacin. (p. 254,

