CHAP. XLIX. 179

peopled the temples of antiquity, were offensive to the

fancy or conscience of the Christian Greeks; and a

smooth surface of colours has ever been esteemed a

more decent and harmless mode of imitation/

The image The merit and effect of a copy depend on its

of Edema, resemblance with the original: but the primi­

tive Christians were ignorant of the genuine features of

the son of God, his mother, and his apostles: the sta­

tue of Christ at Paneas in Palestine8 was, more proba­

bly, that of some temporal saviour; the Gnostics and

their profane monuments were reprobated; and the

fancy of the Christian artists could only be guided by

the clandestine imitation of some heathen model. In

this distress, a bold and dexterous invention assured at

once the likeness of the image and the innocence of

the worship. A new superstructure of fable was

raised on the popular basis of a Syrian legend, on the

correspondence of Christ and Abgarus, so famous in

the days of Eusebius, so reluctantly deserted by our

modern advocates. The bishop of Caesareah records

the epistle,' but he most strangely forgets the picture

'This general history of images is drawn from the twenty-second book of the

Hist, des Eglises Reformees of Basnage, torn. 2. p. 1310—1337. He was a Pro­

testant, but of a manly spirit; and on this head the Protestants are so
notoriously

in the right, that they can venture to be impartial. See the perplexity of
poor

friar Pagi, Critica, torn. 1. p. 42.

* After removing tome rubbish of miracle and inconsistency, it may be allowed,  
that as late as the year 300, Paneas in Palestine was decorated with a bronze
sta-

tne, representing a grave personage wrapt in a cloak, with a grateful or
suppliant

female kneeling before him: and that ati inscription—ra.Zvnpi, -T..J
tvtfyrn—w.is

perhaps inscribed on the pedestal. By the Christians, this groupe was
•foolishly

explained of their founder and the four woman whom he had cured of the bloody-

Sax. (Euseb. 7.18. Philostorg. 7. 3, &c.) M. de Beausobre more reasonably con­

jectures the philosopher Apollonius, or the emperor Vespasian: in tha latter
sup­

position, the femal» is a city, a province, or perhaps the queen Berenice.
(Bib-

Kotheque Germaniuue, torn. I3. p. 1—92.)

'Eoseb. Hist. Eccles. lib. 1. c. IS- The learned Assemanus has brought up

the collateral aid of the three Syrians, St. Ephrem, Josua Stylites, and James
bi­

shop of Sarug; but I do not find any notice of the Syriac original, or the
archives

of Edessa; (Bibliot Orient, torn. 1. p. 318. 420. .v,'t. i their vague belief
is pro­

bably derived from the Greeks.

1 The evidence for these epistles in stated and rejected by the candid l
,;inlm r.

( Heathen Testimonies, vol. 1. p. '279—309.) Among the herd of bigots who are

forcibly driven from this convenient bat untenable poM, I am ashamed, with,
the

Grabes, Caves, Tillemonts, .v. to discover Mr. Addison, an English gentleman

(ton Works, vol. t. p. 528. Baskerville's edition); but his superficial tract
on tin'

Christian religion owei it- credit to bin namp, its style, and the interested
applauw

of our clergy.

x 2

