204 ROMAN EMPIRE.

virtues of a soldier are insensibly nursed in the habits

and discipline of a pastoral life. The care of the sheep

and camels is abandoned to the women of the tribe; but

the martial youth under the banner of the emir, is ever

on horseback, and in the field, to practise the exercise

of the bow, the javelin, and the scimitar. The long me­

mory of their independence is the firmest pledge of its

perpetuity, and succeeding generations are animated to

prove their descent, and to maintain their inheritance.

Their domestic feuds are suspended on the approach of

a common enemy; and in their last hostilities against

the Turks, the caravan of Mecca was attacked and pil­

laged by fourscore thousand of the confederates. When

they advance to battle, the hope of victory is in the

front; in the rear, the assurance of a retreat. Their

horses and camels, who in eight or ten days can perform

a march of four or five hundred miles, disappear before

the conqueror; the secret waters of the desert elude his

search; and his victorious troops are consumed with

thirst, hunger, and fatigue, in the pursuit of an invisible

foe, who scorns his efforts, and safely reposes in the heart

of the burning solitude. The arms and deserts of the

Bedoweens are not only the safeguards of their own

freedom, but the barriers also of the happy Arabia,

whose inhabitants, remote from war, are enervated by the

luxury of the soil and climate. The legions of Augustus

melted away in disease and lassitude ;d and it is only by

a naval power that the reduction of Yemen has been suc­

cessfully attempted. When Mahomet erected his holy

standard,0 that kingdom was a province of the Persian

empire; yet seven princes of the Homerites still reigned

in the mountains: and the vicegerent of Chosroes was

i> Strabo, lib. 16. p. 1127—1129. Plin. Hist. Natur. 6. 3«. .lElius Gallus
landed

near Medina, and marched near a thousand miles into the part of Yemen between

Mareb and the ocean. The non ante de victis Sabeae regibus, (Od. 1. p. 29.)
and the

intacti Arabum thesauii (Od. 3. 24.) of Horace, attest the virgin parity of
Arabia.

'See the imperfect history of Yemen in Pocock, Specimen, p. 55—-66. of Hira,

p. 66—74. of Gassan, p. 75—78. as fai as it could be known or preserved in the

time of ignoiance.

