404 ROMAN EMPIRE.

more; and the loss of Damascus and Jerusalem, the

bloody fields of Aiznadin and Yermuk, may be imputed

in some degree to the absence or misconduct of the so­

vereign. Instead of defending the sepulchre of Christ,

he involved the church and state in a metaphysical con­

troversy for the unity of his will; and while Heraclius

crowned the offspring of his second nuptials, he was

tamely stripped of the most valuable part of their inhe­

ritance. In the cathedral of Antioch, in the presence of

the bishops, at the foot of the crucifix, he bewailed the

sins of the prince and people; but his confession in­

structed the world, that it was vain, and perhaps impious,

to resist the judgment of God. The Saracens were in­

vincible in fact, since they were invincible in opinion;

and the desertion of Youkinna, his false repentance and

repeated perfidy, might justify the suspicion of the em­

peror, that he was encompassed by traitors and apos­

tates, who conspired to betray his person and their coun­

try to the enemies of Christ. In the hour of adversity,

his superstition was agitated by the omens and dreams

of a falling crown; and, after bidding an eternal farewell

to Syria, he secretly embarked with a few attendants, and

absolved the faith of his subjects.1 Constantine, his eldest

son, had been stationed with forty thousand men at Cae-

sarea, the civil metropolis of the three provinces of Pa­

lestine. But his private interest recalled him to the By­

zantine court; and, after the flight of his father, he felt

himself an unequal champion to the united force of the

caliph. His vanguard was boldly attacked by three

hundred Arabs and a thousand black slaves, who, in the

depth of winter, had climbed the snowy mountains of

Libanus, and who were speedily followed by the victo­

rious squadrons of Caled himself. From the north and

south the troops of Antioch and Jerusalem advanced

« See Ockley, (vol. 1. p. 308, 312.) who laughs at the credulity of his
author.

When Heraclius bade farewell to Syria, Vale Syria et ultinium vale, he
prophesied

that the Romans should never re-enter the provmce till the birth of an
inauspicious

child, the future scourge of the empire. Abulfeda, p. 68. I am perfectly
ignorant

of the mystic sense, or nonsense, of this prediction.

