156 ROMAN EMPIRE.

loved by his people, John was never reduced to the

painful necessity of punishing, or even pardoning, his

personal enemies. During his government of twenty-

five years, the penalty of death was abolished in the

Roman empire, a law of mercy most delightful to the

human theorist, but of which the practice, in a large

and vicious community, is seldom consistent with the

public safety. Severe to himself, indulgent to others,

chaste, frugal, abstemious, the philosophic Marcus would

not have disdained the artless virtues of his successor,

derived from his heart, and not borrowed from the

schools. He despised and moderated the stately mag­

nificence of the Byzantine court, so oppressive to the

people, so contemptible to the eye of reason. Under

such a prince, innocence had nothing to fear, and merit

had every thing to hope; and without assuming the ty­

rannic office of a censor, he introduced a gradual though

visible reformation in the public and private manners of

Constantinople. The only defect of this accomplished

character, was the frailty of noble minds—the love of

arms and military glory. Yet the frequent expeditions

of John the Handsome may be justified, at least in their

principle, by the necessity of repelling the Turks from

the Hellespont and the Bosphorus. The sultan of Ico-

nium was confined to his capital, the barbarians were

driven to the mountains, and the maritime provinces of

Asia enjoyed the transient blessings of their deliverance.

From Constantinople to Antioch and Aleppo, he repeat­

edly marched at the head of a victorious army, and in

the sieges and battles of this holy war, his Latin allies

were astonished by the superior spirit and prowess

of a Greek. As he began to indulge the ambitious

hope of restoring the ancient limits of the empire, as he

revolved in his mind, the Euphrates and the Tigris,

the dominion of Syria, and the conquest of Jerusalem,

the thread of his life and of the public felicity was

broken by a singular accident. He hunted the wild

