CHAP. LII. 527

Fallen kahdi,the twentieth of the Abbassides, and the

state of thirty-ninth of the successors of Mahomet, was

Kphsof the last who deserved the title of commander of

A!l).93d. the faithful ;q the last (says Abulfeda) who spoke

&c- to the people, or conversed with the learned; the

last who, in the expense of his household, represented

the wealth and magnificence of the ancient caliphs. After

him, the lords of the eastern world were reduced to the

most abject misery, and exposed to the blows and insults

of a servile condition. The revolt of the provinces cir­

cumscribed their dominions within the walls of Bagdad;

but that capital still contained an innumerable multitude,

vain of their past fortune, discontented with their present

state, and oppressed by the demands of a treasury, which

had formly been replenished by the spoil and tribute of

nations. Their idleness was exercised by faction and

controversy under the mask of piety, the rigid followers

of Hanbalr invaded the pleasures of domestic life, burst

into the houses of plebeians and princes, spilled the wine,

broke the instruments, beat the musicians, and disho­

noured, with infamons suspicions, the associates of every

handsome youth. In each profession, which allowed

room for two persons, the one was a votary, the other an

antagonist, of Ali; and the Abbassides were awakened

by the clamorous grief of the sectaries, who denied their

title, and cursed their progenitors. A turbulent people

could only be repressed by a military force; but who

could satisfy the avarice, to assert the discipline, of the

1 Hie est ultimas chalifah qui multum atque ssepius pro concione perbrarit. .
.

Fuit etiam ultimus qui olium cum eruditis et facetis hominibus fallere
hilariterque

agere soleret. Ultimus lanJcm chalifarum cui sumptus, stipendia, reditus, ct
the­

sauri, culinae, oeteraque omnis aulica pompapriorum chalifarurp ad instar
compa-

rata fuerint , Videbimus enim paullo post quam indignis ct serrilibus
ludibriis exa-

gitati, quam ad humilem fortunam ultimumque contemptum abjecii fu«rint Li
quon­

dam potentissimi totius terrarum Orientalium orbis domini. Abulfed. AHUM!.

Moslem, p. 261. I have given this passage as the manner and tone of Abulfeda;

but the cast of Latin eloquence belongs more proporly to Keiske. The Arabian
his­

torian (p. 255.257. 261—2ti9. 283, &c.) has supplied me ivith the most
interest­

ing facts of this parngTa];h.

'Their master, on a similiar occasion, shewed himself of a more indulgent and

tolerating spirit. Ahmed Ebu Haubal, the head of one of the four orthodox
sects,

was born at Bagdad, A.H. 161, and died there A.H. 211. He fought and suffered

in the dispute concerning the creation of the Koran.

