GHAP. XLIX. 817

accepted and announced the decrees of the Nicene as­

sembly, which is now revered by the Catholics as the se­

venth in rank of the general councils. Rome and Italy

were docile to the voice of their father; but the greatest

part of the Latin Christians were far behind in the race

Reluctance of superstition. The churches of France, Ger-

ofthe many, England, and Spain, steered a middle

Franks and f* ° * r.

e- course between the adoration and the destruc-

tion of images, which they admitted into their

&c' temples, not as objects of worship, but as lively

and useful memorials of faith and history. An angry

book of controversy was composed and published un­

der the name of Charlemagne;" under his authority a

synod of three hundred bishops was assembled at

Frankfort;° they blamed the fury of the Iconoclasts,

but they pronounced a more severe censure against

the superstition of the Greeks, and the decrees of their

pretended council, which was long despised by the bar­

barians of the west.p Among them the worship of images

advanced with silent and insensible progress; but a large

atonement is made for their hesitation and delay, by the

gross idolatry of the ages which precede the Reforma­

tion, and of the countries, both in Europe and America,

which are still immersed in the gloom of superstition.

Final - It was after the Nicene synod, and under the

ration of reign of the pious Irene, that the popes con-

from the summated the separation of Rome and Italy, by

• The libri Carolini, (Spanheim, p. 443—529.) composed in the palace or win­

ter-quarters of Charlemagne, at Worms, A. D. 790, and cent by Engebert to pope

Hadrian I. who answered them by a grandis et verbosa epistola. (Condi, torn.
8.

p. 1553.) The Carolines propose one hundred and twenty objections against the

Nicene synod, and such words as these are the flowers of their rhetoric—demen-

tiam priscae Gentilitatis obsoletum errorem arguments insanissima et ab-

Burdissima .... derisione dignas naenias, &c. &c.

° The assemblies of Charlemagne were political as well as ecclesiastical; and

the three hundred members (Nat. Alexander, sec. 8. p. 53.) who sat and voted
at

Frankfort, must include not only the bishops, but the abbots, and even the
princi­

pal laymen.

i' Qui supra aanctissima patres nostri (episcopi et sacerdotes) vmnimodit
serri-

tinm et adorationem imaginum renuentes contempserunt, atque consentientes

condemnaverunt. (Concil. torn. 9. p. 101. canon t. Frankfurd.) A polemic must

be hard-hearted indeed, who does not pity the efforts of Buronius, Pagi, Alex­

ander, Maimburg, &c. to elude this unlucky sentence.

