180 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of Christ ;k the perfect impression of his face on a

linen, with which he gratified the faith of the royal

stranger, who had invoked his healing power, and

offered the strong city of Edessa to protect him against

the malice of the Jews. The ignorance of the primi­

tive church is explained by the long imprisonment of

the image in a niche of the wall, from whence, after an

oblivion of five hundred years, it was released by some

prudent bishop, and seasonably presented to the devo­

tion of the times. Its first and most glorious exploit

was the deliverance of the city from the arms of Chos-

roes Nushirvan; and it was soon revered as a pledge

of the divine promise, that Edessa should never be

taken by a foreign enemy. It is true, indeed, that the

text of Procopius ascribes the double deliverance of

Edessa to the wealth and valour of her citizens, who

purchased the absence, and repelled the assaults, of the

Persian monarch. He was ignorant, the profane histo­

rian, of the testimony which he is compelled to deliver

in the ecclesiastical page of Evagrius, that the Palla­

dium was exposed on the rampart; and that the water,

which had been sprinkled on the holy face, instead of

quenching, added new fuel to the flames of the besieged.

After this important service, the image of Edessa was

preserved with respect and gratitude; and if the Arme­

nians rejected the legend, the more credulous Greeks

adored the similitude, which was not the work of any

mortal pencil, but the immediate creation of the divine

original. The style and sentiments of a Byzantine

hymn will declare how far their worship was removed

from the grossest idolatry. How can we with mortal

eyes contemplate this image, whose celestial splendour the

k From the silence of James of Sarug, (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, p. f89. 318.)

and the testimony of Evagrins, (Hist. Eccles. lib. 4. c. 27,) I conclude (hat
this

fable was invented between the years 521 and 594, most probably after the
siege

of Kdrssu in 540. (Asseman, torn. 1. p. 416. Procopius, de Bell. Persic, lib.
2.)

It u the sword and buckler of Gregory II. (in Epist. 1. and Leon. Isaur.
Council,

torn. 8. p. 656, 657.) of John Damascenus, (Opera, torn. 1. p. (81. edit.
Lequien)

and of the second Nicene council. (Actio, 5. p. 1030.) The most perfect edi­

tion may be found in Cedrenns. (Compend. p. 175—178.)

