108 ROMAN EMPIRE.

of a brute; his lust confounded the eternal distinctions

of sex and species; and he seemed to extract some un­

natural delight from the objects most offensive to human

sense. In his religion, the Iconoclast was a heretic, a

Jew, a Mahometan, a Pagan, and an atheist; and his

belief of an invisible power could be discovered only in

his magic rites, human victims, and nocturnal sacrifices

to Venus and the demons of antiquity. His life was

stained with the most opposite vices," and the ulcers

which covered his body, anticipated before his death

the sentiment of hell tortures. Of these accusations,

which I have so patiently copied, a part is refuted by its

own absurdity; and in the private anecdotes of the life

of princes, the lie is more easy as the detection is more

difficult. Without adopting the pernicious maxim, that

where much is alleged, something must be true, I can

however discern, that Constantine V. was dissolute and

cruel. Calumny is more prone to exaggerate than to in­

vent; and her licentious tongue is checked in some

measure by the experience of the age and country to

which she appeals. Of the bishops and monks, the ge­

nerals and magistrates, who are said to have suffered

under his reign, the numbers are recorded, the names

were conspicuous, the execution was public, the mutila­

tion visible and permanent. The Catholics hated the

person and government of Copronymus; but even their

hatred is a proof of their oppression. They dissemble

the provocations which might excuse or justify his ri­

gour; but even these provocations must gradually in­

flame his resentment, and harden his temper in the use

or the abuse of despotism. Yet the character of the fifth

Constantine was not devoid of merit, nor did his govern­

ment always deserve the curses or the contempt of the

Greeks. From the confession of his enemies, I am in­

formed of the restoration of an ancient aqueduct, of the

redemption of two thousand five hundred captives, of the

uncommon plenty of the times, and of the new colonies

