26 ROMAN EMPIRE.

cntals refused to yield, and the Catholics, proud of their

numbers and of their Latin allies, rejected all terms of

union or toleration. The patience of the meek Theo-

dosius was provoked, and he dissolved in anger this

episcopal tumult, which at the distance of thirteen cen­

turies assumes the venerable aspect of the third ecu­

menical council." God is my witness (said the pious

prince), that I am not the author of this confusion. His

providence will discern and punish the guilty. Return

to your provinces, and may your private virtues repair

the mischief and scandal of your meeting. They return­

ed to their provinces; but the same passions which

had distracted the synod of Ephesus were diffused over

the eastern world. After three obstinate and equal

campaigns, John of Antioch and Cyril of Alexandria

condescended to explain and embrace: but their seem­

ing reunion must be imputed rather to prudence than to

reason, to the mutual lassitude rather than to the Chris­

tian charity of the patriarchs.

victory The Byzantine pontiff had instilled into the

A.^431 royal ear a baleful prejudice against the cha-

—*35. racter and conduct of his Egyptian rival. An

epistle of menace and invective,b which accompa­

nied the summons, accused him as a busy, insolent,

and envious priest, who perplexed the simplicity of

the faith, violated the peace of the church and state,

and, by his artful and separate addresses to the wife and

sister of Theodosius, presumed to suppose, or to scatter,

the seeds of discord in the imperial family. At the stern

command of his sovereign, Cyril had repaired toEphe­

* See the Acts of the Synod of Ephesus, in the original Greek, and a Latin ver­  
sion almost contemporary, (Concil. torn. 3. p. 991—1339. with the Synodicon
ad-

versus Tragaediam Irensi, torn. 4. p. 235—497.) the Ecclesiastical Histories
of

Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 34.) and Evagrius, (lib. 1. c. 3—5.) the Breviary of
Liberatus,

{in Concil. torn. 6. p. 419—459. c. 5, 6.) and the Memoires Eccles. of
Tillemont.

<torn. 14. p. 377—487.)

!l Tn;a^':i (says the emperor in pointed language) TO yt tin crai/rw, xai
yj-:-tic,

Tats lxxXna-jai; ilU£fCXnxa? .... a; dgaffvrf fac of JUQC TFfHFOvaTtf ^*aXX«
il tutpBiMf

«... xai irouuXiaf fjuAKn TWTW fywn ttpawfit nffip airXorHraf .... irarrnf

/uaXXov i} tips*? . . . . T* Tf ten fXxXwiar, TA TI Tm CaffiXlwv /utXXuy
%aifi£tu &w-

Xe.-dai, w; cm aunt aftpfMt itifat lulfxijur-t*;. I should be curious to know
how

much Nestorius paid for these expressions so mortifying to his rival.

