514 ROM'AN EMPIRE.

first efforts were assisted by a gift of horses and cattle;

and the hardy exiles, who breathed revenge against the

Saracens, swore to live and die under the standard of

St. Peter. The nations of the west and north who visited

the threshold of the apostles, had gradually formed the

large and populous suburb of the Vatican, and their va­

rious habitations were distinguished, in the language of

the times, as the schools of the Greeks and Goths, of the

Lombards and Saxons. But this venerable spot was still

open to sacrilegious insult: the design of enclosing it

with walls and towers exhausted all that authority could

command, or charity would supply; and the pious la­

bour of four years was animated in every season, and at

every hour, by the presence of the indefatigable pontiff.

The love of fame, a generous but worldly passion, may

Founda- ^e detected in the name of the Leonine city,

tionofthe which he bestowed on the Vatican; yet the

Leonine i . «_

city, pride of the dedication was tempered with

Christian penance and humility. The boundary

was trod by the bishop and his clergy, barefoot in sack­

cloth and ashes; the songs of triumph were modulated

to psalms and litanies; the walls were besprinkled with

holy water; and the ceremony was concluded with a

prayer, that under the guardian care of the apostles and

the angelic host, both the old and the new Rome might

ever be preserved pure, prosperous, and impregnable.1

The Amo- The emperor Theophilus, son of Michael the

nan war Stammerer, was one of the most active and high-

between . . ,' . . „. . °.

M- spirited princes who reigned at Constantinople

Motassem, during the middle age. In offensive or defensive

A. D. ass. waf, |ie marched m person five times against the

Saracens, formidable in his attack, esteemed by the

x The Arabs and the Greeks are alike silent concerning the invasion of Rome

by the Africans. The Latin chronicles do not afford much instruction. (See the

Annals of Baronios and Pagi.) Our authentic and contemporary guide for the

popes of the ninth century is Anastasius, librarian of the Koman church. His
life

of Leo IV. contains twenty-four pages (p. 175 — 199. edit. Paris'); and if a
great

part consist of superstitious trifles, we must blame or commend his hero, who
was

much oftener in a church than in a camp.

