.516 ROMAN EMPIRE.

himself commanded the centre, and the vanguard was

given to his son Abbas, who, in the trial of the first

adventures, might succeed with the more glory, or fail

with the least reproach. In the revenge of his injury,

the caliph prepared to retaliate a similar affront. The

father of Theophilus was a native of Amorium* in

Phrygia: the original seat of the imperial house had

been adorned with privileges and monuments; and

whatever might be the indifference of the people, Con­

stantinople itself was scarcely of more value in the eyes

of the sovereign and his court. The name of Amorium

was inscribed on the shields of the Saracens; and their

three armies were again united under the walls of the

devoted city. It had been proposed by the wisest coun­

sellors, to evacuate Amorium, to remove the inhabitants,

and to abandon the empty structures to the vain resent­

ment of the barbarians. The emperor embraced the

more generous resolution of defending, in a siege and

battle, the country of his ancestors. When the armies

drew near, the front of the Mahometan line appeared to

a Roman eye more closely planted with spears and

javelins; but the event of the action was not glorious on

either side to the national troops. The Arabs were

broken, but it was by the swords of thirty thousand Per­

sians, who had obtained service and settlement in the

Byzantine empire. The Greeks were repulsed and van­

quished, but it was by the arrows of the Turkish cavalry:

and had not their bow-strings been damped and relaxed

by the evening rain, very few of the Christians could

have escaped with the emperor from the field of battle.

They breathed at Doryleeum, at the distance of three

days; and Theophilus, reviewing his trembling squa­

drons, forgave the common flight both of the prince and

people. After this discovery of his weakness, he vainly

z Amorium is seldom mentioned by the old geographers, and totally forgotten in

the Roman Itineraries. After the sixth century, it became an episcopal see,
and at

length the metropolis of the new Galatia. (Carol. Seto. Paulo, Geograph.
Sacra,

p. 234.) "The city rose again from its ruins, if we should read Ammvria, not
An-

gvria, in the text of the Nubian Geographer, (p. 236.)

