CHAP. XLIX. 199

nature.1 By the necessity of their situation, the iaha-

bitants of Rome were cast into the rough model of a

republican government: they were compelled to elect

some judges in peace, and some leaders in war; the

nobles assembled to deliberate, and their resolves could

not be executed without the union and consent of the

multitude. The style of the Roman senate and people

was revived/ but the spirit was fled: and their new

independence was disgraced by the tumultuous conflict

of licentiousness and oppression. The want of laws

could only be supplied by the influence of religion,

and their foreign and domestic counsels were mode­

rated by the authority of the bishop. His alms, his

sermons, his correspondence with the kings and pre­

lates of the west, his recent services, their gratitude, an

oath, accustomed the Romans to consider him as the

first magistrate or prince of the city. The Christian

humility of the popes was not offended by the name of

Dominus, or Lord; and their face and inscription are

still apparent on the most ancient coins.2 Their tem­

poral dominion is now confirmed by the reverence of a

thousand years; and their noblest title is the free choice

of a people, whom they had redeemed from slavery.

In the quarrels of ancient Greece, the holy

tackeYb PeoP^e of El is enjoyed a perpetual peace, under

the Lom- the protection of Jupiter, and in the exercise

of the Olympic games.8 Happy would it have

been for the Romans if a similar privilege had

* Quoi (Romanes) nos, Langobardi scilicet, Saiones, Franci, Lotharingi, Ba-  
joari, Suevi, Burgundiones, tanto dedignamur ut inimicos nostros commotii, nil

aliud, contuffieliarumnisi Romane, dicamus: hoc solo, id est Roinanorum
nomine,

quicquid ignobilitatis, quicquid timidilatis, quicquid avaritiae, quicquid
luxuruci,

quicquid mendacii, imttio quicquid vitiorum eat comprehendentes. (Liutprand.
in

Legat. Script. Ital. torn. 2. pars 1. p. 481.) For the sins of Cato or Tully,
Minos

might have imposed, as a fit penance, the daily perusal of this barbarous
passage.

i Pipino regi Francorum, omuls senatus atque tmiversa pppuli generalitus a Deo

eervate Romanic urbis. (Codex Carolin. epist. 36. in Script. Ital. torn. 3.
para 2.

p. 160.) The names of senatus and senator were never totally extinct:
(Dissert.

Chorograph. p. 216, 217.) but in the middle age they signified little more
than

nobiles optimates, Sec. (Ducange, Gloss. Latin.)

1 See Muratori Antiquit. Italia> Medii , K\ i, torn. 2. dissert at. 37. p.
548. On

one of these coins we read Hadrianus Papa (A. D. 772); on the reverse, Viet.

DDNN, with the word COJVOB, which the peie Joubert (Science des Medailles,

torn. 2. p. 42.) explains by CO.V-stantinopoli Officina ft, (secunda.)

'- See West s Dissertation on the Olympic games (Pindar, vol. 2. p. 32 — 36.

~7°2'

