CHAP. LI I. 491

some hesitation, Almansor, the brother and successor of

Saffah, laid the foundations of Bagdad," the imperial

seat of his prosperity during a reign of five hundred

years.' The chosen spot is on the eastern bank of the

Tigris, about fifteen miles above the ruins of Modain:

the double wall was of a circular form; and such was

the rapid increase of a capital, now dwindled to a pro­

vincial town, that the funeral of a popular saint might be

attended by eight hundred thousand men and sixty thou­

sand women of Bagdad and the adjacent villages. In

this city of peace," amidst the riches of the east, the Ab-

bassides soon disdained the abstinence and frugality of

the first caliphs, aud aspired to emulate the magnificence

of the Persian kings. After his wars and buildings Al­

mansor left behind him in gold and silver about thirty

millions sterling ;* and this treasure was exhausted in a

few years by the vices or virtues of his children. His

son Mahadi, in a single pilgrimage to Mecca, expended

six millions of dinars of gold. A pious and charitable

motive may sanctify the foundation of cisterns and cara-

vanseras, which he distributed along a measured road of

seven hundred miles; but his train of camels, laden

with snow, could serve only to astonish the natives of

Arabia, and to refresh the fruits and liquors of the royal

•The geographer d'Anville, (1'Euphrate et leTigre, p. 121—123.) and the orien­

talist d'Herbelot, (Bibliotheque, p. 167,168.) may suffice for the knowledge
of

Bagdad. Our travellers, Pietro della Valle, (torn. 1. p. 688—698.) Tavernier,

(torn. 1. p. 230—238.) Thevenot, (part 2. p. 209—212.) Otter, (torn. 1. p.
162—

168.) and Niebuhr, (Voyage en Arabic, torn. 2. p. 239—271.) have seen only its

decay: and the Nubian geographer, (p. 204.) and the travelling Jew, Benjamm of

Tudela, (Itinerarium, p. 112—123. a Const I'Empereur, apud Elzevir, 1633.) are

the only writers of my acquaintance who have known Bagdad under the reign of

the Abbassides.

lThe foundations of Bagdad were laid A. H. 145. A. D. 762. Mostasem, the last

of the Abbassides, was taken and put to death by the Tartars, A. H. 656, A. D.

1258, the 20th of February.

• Medinat al Salem, Dar al Salern. Urbs pads,or, as is more neatly compounded

by the Byzantine writers, EipnwroXi; (Irenopolis). There is some dispute
concern­

ing the etymology of Bagdad, but the first syllable is allowed to signify a
garden

in the Persian tongue; the garden of Dad, a Christian hermit, whose cell had
been

the only habitation on the spot.

* Refiquit in alrario sexcenties millies mille stateres, et quater et vicies millies  
mille aureos aureos. Elmacin, Hist. Saracen, p. 126. 1 have reckoned the gold

pieces at eight shillings, and the proportion of the silver as twelve to one.
But I

nil! never answer for the numbers of Erpenius; and the Latins are scarcely
above

the savages in the language of arithmetic.

