CHAP. L.

in three divisions, marched into the city: eight and

twenty of the inhabitants were slain by the sword of Ca-

led: eleven men and six women were proscribed by the

sentence of Mahomet; but he blamed the cruelty of his

lieutenant; and several of the most obnoxious victims

were indebted for their lives to his clemency or contempt.

The chiefs of the Koreish were prostrate at his feet.

What mercy can you expect from the man whom you have

wronged?—We confide in the generosity of our kinsman.

—And you shall not confide in vain; begone! you are

safe, you are free. The people of Mecca deserved their

pardon by the profession of Islam; and after an exile of

seven years, the fugitive missionary was enthroned as

the prince and prophet of his native country.b But the

three hundred and sixty idols of the Caaba were igno-

miniously broken; the house of God was purified and

adorned; as an example to future times, the apostle

again fulfilled the duties of a pilgrim: and a perpetual

law was enacted, that no unbeliever should dare to set

his foot on the territory of the holy city.0

Conquest The conquest of Mecca determined the faith

A. J.tisst' ^d obedience of the Arabian tribes ;d who, ac-

—632. cording to the vicissitudes of fortune, had obeyed

or disregarded the eloquence or the arms of the prophet.

Indifference for rites and opinions still marks the cha­

racter of the Bedoweens; and they might accept, as

loosely as they hold, the doctrine of the Koran. Yet an

obstinate remnant still adhered to the religion and liberty

of their ancestors; and the war of Honain derived a pro­

per appellation from the idols, whom Mahomet had

'• The Mahometan doctors still dispute, whether Mecca was reduced by force or

consent (Abulfeda, p. 107. et Gagnier ad locum); and this verbal controversy
is of

as much moment as our own about William the Conqueror.

* In excluding the Christians from the peninsula of Arabia, the province of  
Hejaz, or the navigation of the Red sea, Chardin (Voyages en Perses, torn. 4.

p. 166.) and lleland (Dissert. Miscell. torn. 3. p. SI.) are more rigid than
the

Mussulmans themselves. Tin- Christians are received without scruple into the

ports of Mocha, and even of Gedda, and it is only the city and precincts of
Mecca

that are inaccessible to the profane. (Niebuhr, Description de 1'Arabie, p.
308,

309. Voyage en Arabie, torn. 1. p. 205. 248, &c.)

i• Abulfeda, p. 112—115. Gagnier, torn. 3. p. 67—88. D'Herbelot, MoHAMHF.D.

VOL. VI. Y

