CHAP. L. 343

lected to secure, either by gifts or fetters, the doubtful

allegiance of Telha and Zobier, two of the most powerful

of the Arabian chiefs. They escaped from Medina to

Mecca, and from thence to Bassora; erected the stan­

dard of revolt, and usurped the government of Irak, or

Assyria, which they had vainly solicited as the reward

of their services. The mask of patriotism is allowed to

cover the most glaring inconsistencies: and the enemies,

perhaps the assassins, of Othman now demanded ven­

geance for his blood. They were accompanied in their

flight by Ayesha, the widow of the prophet, who che­

rished, to the last hour of her life, an implacable hatred

against the husband and the posterity of Fatima. The

most reasonable Moslems were scandalized, that the

mother of the faithful should expose in a camp her person

and character; but the superstitious crowd was confident

that her presence would sanctify the justice, and assure

the success, of their cause. At the head of twenty thou­

sand of his loyal Arabs, and nine thousand valiant auxi­

liaries of Cufa, the caliph encountered and defeated the

superior number of the rebels under the walls of Bassora.

Their leaders, Telha and Zobeir, were slain in the first

battle that stained with civil blood the arras of the Mos­

lems. After passing through the ranks to animate the

troops, Ayesha had taken her post amidst the dangers

of the field. In the heat of the action, seventy men,

who held the bridle of her camel, were successively

killed or wounded; and the cage or litter in which she

sat, was struck with javelins and darts like the quills of

a porcupine. The venerable captive sustained with

firmness the reproaches of the conqueror, and was speed­

ily dismissed to her proper station, at the tomb of Ma­

homet, with the respect and tenderness that was still due

to the widow of the apostle. After this victory, which

was styled the Day of the Camel, Ali marched against

a more formidable adversary; against Moawiyah, the

son of Abu Sophian, who had assumed the title of ea­

