334 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the wise Solomon, we shall applaud the modesty of the

Arabian, who espoused no more than seventeen or fifteen

wives; eleven are enumerated, who occupied at Medina

their separate apartments round the house of the apostle,

and enjoyed in their turns the favour of his conjugal

society. What is singular enough, they were all widows,

excepting only Ayesha, the daughter of Abubeker. She

was doubtless a virgin, since Mahomet consummated his

nuptials (such is the premature ripeness of the climate)

when she was only nine years of age. The youth, the

beauty, the spirit, of Ayesha, gave her a superior as足

cendant: she was beloved and trusted by the prophet;

and, after his death, the daughter of Abubeker was long

revered as the mother of the faithful. Her behaviour

had been ambiguous and indiscreet: in a nocturnal

march, she was accidentally left behind; and in the

morning Ayesha returned to the camp with a man. The

temper of Mahomet was inclined to jealousy; but a

divine revelation assured him of her innocence: he chas足

tised her accusers, and published a law of domestic peace,

that no woman should be condemned unless four male

witnesses had seen her in the act of adultery." In his

adventures with Zeineb, the wife of Zeid, and with Mary,

an Egyptian captive, the amorous prophet forgot the

interest of his reputation. At the house of Zeid, his

freedman and adopted son, he beheld, in a loose undress,

the beauty of Zeineb, and burst forth into an ejaculation

of devotion and desire. The servile, or grateful, freed足

man, understood the hint, and yielded without hesitation

to the love of his benefactor. But as the filial relation

had excited some doubt and scandal, the angel Gabriel

descended from heaven to ratify the deed, to annul the

adoption, and gently to reprove the apostle for distrust足

ing the indulgence of his God. One of his wives,

Hafno, the daughter of Omar, surprised him on her own

a In a memorable case, the caliph Omar decided that all presumptive evidence

was of no avail; and that all the four witnesses must have actually seen
styfam

in pyiide. (Abulfede Annales Moslemici, p. 71. vers. Reiske.)

