CHAP. XLVIII. 161

of royal birth, it is incumbent on me to observe, that

their fortunate lover was cast in the best proportions of

strength and beauty; and that the want of the softer

graces was supplied by a manly countenance, a lofty

stature, athletic muscles, and the air and deportment of

a soldier. The preservation, in his old age, of health

and vigour, was the reward of temperance and exercise.

A piece of bread and a draught of water were often his

sole and evening repast; and if he tasted of a wild boar,

or a stag, which he had roasted with his own hands, it

was the well-earned fruit of a laborious chase. Dexterous

in arms,he was ignorantof fear: his persuasive eloquence

could bend to every situation and character of life: his

style, though not his practice, was fashioned by the ex­

ample of St. Paul; and, in every deed of mischief, he

had a heart to resolve, a head to contrive, and a hand to

execute. In his youth, after the death of the emperor

John, he followed the retreat of the Roman army; but,

in the march through Asia Minor, design or accident

tempted him to wander in the mountains; the hunter

was encompassed by the Turkish huntsmen, and he re­

mained some time a reluctant or willing captive in the

power of the sultan. His virtues and vices recommended

him to the favour of his cousin; he shared the perils

and the pleasures of Manuel; and while the emperor

lived in public incest with his niece Theodora, the af­

fections of her sister Eudocia were seduced and enjoyed

by Andronicus. Above the decencies of her sex and

rank, she gloried in the name of his concubine; and

both the palace and the camp could witness that she

slept or watched in the arms of her lover. She accom­

panied him to his military command of Cilicia, the first

scene of his valour and imprudence. He pressed, with

active ardour, the siege of Mopsuestia: the day was em­

ployed in the boldest attacks; but the night was wasted

in song and dance; and |a band of Greek comedians

formed the choicest part of his retinue. Andronicus was

VOL. VI. M

