276 ROMAN EMPIRE.

idols of men, eagles, lions, and antelopes; and most

conspicuous was the statue of Hebal, of red agate,

holding in his hand seven arrows, without heads or

feathers, the instruments and symbols of profane divi­

nation. But this statue was a monument of Syrian

arts: the devotion of the ruder ages was content with a

pillar or a tablet; and the rocks of the desert were hewn

into gods or altars, in imitation of the black stone' of

Mecca, which is deeply tainted with the reproach of an

Sacrifices idolatrous origin. From Japan to Peru, the

and ntes. use of sacrifice has universally prevailed; and

the votary has expressed his gratitude or fear by de­

stroying or consuming, in honour of the gods, the

dearest and most precious of their gifts. The life of a

mand is the most precious oblation to deprecate a pub­

lic calamity: the altars of Phoenicia and Egypt, of

Rome and Carthage, have been polluted with human

gore: the cruel practice was long preserved among the

Arabs; in the third century, a boy was annually sacri­

ficed by the the tribe of the Dumatians;' and a royal

•captive was piously slaughtered by the prince of the

Saracens, the ally and soldier of the emperor Justinian/

A parent who drags his son to the altar, exhibits the

most painful and sublime effort of fanaticism: the deed,

or the intention, was sanctified by the example of saints

c In the second century, Maximus of Tyre attributes to the Arabs the worship
of

a stone—Apa£iu nBnm pat, orriM if sun oiJ», TO it ayaX/us «>«; Xido; nv
•mf&ymK,

(Dissert. 8. torn. 1. p. 142. edit . Reiske) and the reproach is furiously re-
echoed

by the Christians. (Clemens Alex, in Protreptico, p. 40. Arnobius contra
Gentes,

lib. 6. p. 246.) Yet these stones were no other than the dairuX* of Syria a"d

Greece, so renowned in sacred and profane antiquity. (Euseb. Priep. Evangel.

lib. 1. p. 37. Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 54—56.)

* The two horrid subjects of AvJpo&wna and naiJoSuo-ia, are accurately discussed  
by the learned sir John Marsharn. (Canon. Chron. p. 76—78. 301—304.) Saa-

choniatho derives the Phoenician sacrifices from the example of Chronus: but
we

are ignorant whether Chronus lived before or after Abraham, or indeed whether

he lived at all.

• KUT" rot fxvrw irai&t iSu», is the reproach of Porphyry; but he likewise im­

putes to the Roman the same barbarous custom, which A. U. C. 657, had been

finally abolished. Dumstha, Daumat al Gendal, is noticed by Ptolemy (Tabul, p.

37. Arabia, p. 9—29.) and Abulfeda; (p. 57.) and may be found in d'Anvilles

maps, in the mid-desert between Chaibar and Tadmor.

'Procopins, (de Bell. Persico, lib. 8. c. 28.) Evagrius, (lib. 6. c. 21.) and
Po-

cock, (Specimen, p. 72. 86.) attest the human sacrifices of the Arabs in the
sixth

century. The danger and escape of Abdallah, is a tradition rather than a fact.

(Gagnier, Vic de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 82—84.)

