CHAP. L. 367*

clearest evidence of public freedom.11 But their simple

freedom was of a very different cast from the nice and

artificial machinery of the Greek and Roman republics,

in which each member possessed an undivided share of

the civil and political rights of the community. In the

more simple state of the Arabs, the nation is free,because

each of her sons disdains a base submission to the will

of a master. His breast is fortified with the austere vir­

tues of courage, patience, and sobriety; the love of in­

dependence prompts him to exercise the habits of self-

command; and the fear of dishonour guards him from

themeaner apprehension of pain, of danger,and of death.

The gravity and firmness of the mind are conspicuous in

his outward demeanour: his speech is slow, weighty, and

concise, he is seldom provoked to laughter, his only ges­

ture is that of stroking his beard, the venerable symbol

of manhood; and the sense of his own importance teaches

him to accost his equals without levity, and his superiors

without awe.1 The liberty of the Saracens survived their

conquests: the first caliphs indulged the bold and fami­

liar language of their subjects: they ascended the pulpit

to persuade and edify the congregation: nor was it be­

fore the seat of empire was rembved to the Tigris, that

the Abbassides adopted the proud and pompous cere­

monial of the Persian and Byzantine courts.

In the study of nations and men we may ob-

Cmlwais * iii-i

and private serve the causes that render them hostile or

.' venge. friendiy to each other, that tend to narrow or

enlarge, to mollify or exasperate, the social character.

The separation of the Arabs from the rest of mankind,

has accustomed them to confound the ideas of stranger

and enemy: and the poverty of the land has introduced

k Nou gloriabantni antiquitus Arabes, nisi gladio, hospite, et elaqtuntiA.
(Sepha-

dius, apud Pocock, Specimen, p. 161, 162.) This gift of speech they shared
only

with the Persians; and the sententious Arabs would probably have disdained the

simple and sublime logic of Demosthenes.

1 I must remind the reader, that d'Arvieux, d'Herbelot, and Niebuhr,
represent,

in the most lively colours, the manners and government of the Arabs, which are

illustrated by many incidental passages in the life of Mahomet.

