CHAP. LI. 403

inside the entrance of the castle. They overpowered

the guard, unbolted the gate, let down the drawbridge,

and defended the narrow pass, till the arrival of Caled,

with the dawn of day, relieved their danger and assured

their conquest. Youkinna, a formidable foe, became

an active and useful proselyte; and the general of the

Saracens expressed his regard for the most humble merit,

by detaining the army at Aleppo till Dames was cured

of his honourable wounds. The capital of Syria was still

covered by the castle of Aazaz and the iron bridge of

the Orontes. After the loss of these important posts,

and the defeat of the last of the Roman armies, the

luxury of Antiochr trembled and obeyed. Her safety

was ransomed with three hundred thousand pieces of

gold; but the throne of the successors of Alexander, the

seat of the Roman government in the east, which had

been decorated by Caesar with the titles of free, and

holy, and inviolate, was degraded under the yoke of the

caliphs to the secondary rank of a provincial town.*

„. , , In the life of Heraclius, the glories of the Per-

Heraciius. sian war are clouded on either hand by the dis­

grace and weakness of his more early and his

later days. When the successors of Mahomet unsheathed

the sword of war and religion, he was astonished at the

boundless prospect of toil and danger; his nature was in­

dolent, nor could the infirm and frigid age of the empe­

ror be kindled to a second effort. The sense of shame,

and the importunities of the Syrians, prevented his hasty

departure from the scene of action; but the hero was no

'The date of the conquest of Antioch by the Arabs ia of some importance. By

comparing the years of the world in the chronography of Theopbanes with the
years

of the Hegira in the history of Elmacin, we shall determine, that it was taken
be­

tween January 23 and September 1, of the year of Christ 638. (Pagi, Ciitica,
in

Baron. Anna1, torn. 2. p. 814,813.) Al Wakidi (Ockley, vol. 1. p. 314 )
assigns

that event to Tuesday, August 21, an inconsistent date; since Easter fell that
year

on Aprils, the 21st of August must have been a Friday. (See the Tables of the
Art

de Verifier les Dates.)

'Hi s bounteous edict, which tempted the grateful city to assume the victory
of

Pharsalia for a perpetual era, i» given tt Aviux"a T /u»rf«roMi, li^a not
mtni\y,

iut aurmpv, x.ii of^iurn xai ^uia^/uini TO; aynToXx;. John Malala, in Chron.
p. PI.

edit. Vi-nri. We may distinguish his authentic information of domestic facts
from

In* gross ignorance of general history.

2 D 2

