CHAP. xLTir. oa

and Cyprus; and their numbers, with those of the Jaco­

bites, were computed to surpass the Greek and Latin

communions.* Twenty-five metropolitans or archbishops

composed their hierarchy; but several of these were dis­

pensed, by the distance and danger of the way, from the

duty of personal attendance, on the easy condition that

every six years they should testify their faith and obe-

'dience to the Catholic or patriarch of Babylon, a vague

appellation, which has been successively applied to the

royal seats of Seleucia, Ctesiphon, and Bagdad. These

remote branches are long since Withered, and the old

patriarchal trunk0 is now divided by the Elijahs of Mo­

sul, the representatives, almost in lineal descent, of the

genuine and primitive succession, the Josephs of Amida,

%ho are reconciled to the church of Rome/ atid the

Simeons of Van or Ortnia, whose revolt at the head of

forty thousand families was promoted in the sixteenth

century by the Sophists of Persia. The number of three

hundred thousand is allowed for the whole body of the

Nestorians, who, under the name of Chaldeans or As­

syrians, are confounded with the most lefcrined or the

moat powerful nation of eastern antiquity.

The Chris- According to the legend of antiquity, the go3-

tians of St. pel was preached in India by St. Thomas.* At

indu. the end of the ninth century, his shrine, perhaps

A. D. t»3, JQ ^ neighbourhood of Madras, was devoutly

visited by the ambassadors of Alfred, and their return

J Jacobite et NestoWail* prafesqiiam Graeci el Latini. Jacob a Vitriac6i Hist.

Hlerosol. lib. 2. e. 16. p. 1093. in the Gesta Dei per Francos. The numbers
are

given by Thomassin, Discipline de 1'Eglise, torn. t. p. 17'.'..

* The division of the patriarchate may be traced in the BrbHotbeca Oriehu of A*-  
Fcmanni, torn. 1. p. 523—549. torn. 2. p. 457, &c. torn. 3. p. 603. p.
621—623.

torn. 4. p. 164-^169. p. 443. p. 622—6*9, etc.

'The pompous language of Rome, on the submission of a Nestorian patriarch, is

elegafifly representedih the seventh book of Pra-Paolo, Babylon, Nineveh,
Arbera,

and the trophies of Alexander, Tauris, and Ecbatana, the Tigris and Indus.

S The Indian missionary St. Thomas, an apostle, a Manichaan, or an Armenian

merchant, ( La Croze, Ghristianisme des Indcs, torn. 1. p. 57—70.) was famous,

howeveT) as early as the time of Jerome, (ad Mercelium, cpist. 148.) Marco

Polo was infomied oil the spot that he suffered martyrdom in thc city of
Malabar',

dr HefiapOur, a league only from Madras, (d'Anville, Eclaircissemens sUT
1'lnde,

f l§5.y where the fbrtugaese founded .aa episcopal church under the name of

St. 'Chomp, add where the saint performed an annual miracle, till he was
silenced

by the profane neighbourhood of the English. (La Cioze, torn. 2. p. 7—16.)

vi. F

