220 ROMAN EMPIRE.

or succeeding ages;* the walls of Rome, the sacred

patrimony, the ruin of the Lombards, and the friendship

of Charlemagne, were the trophies of his fame: he

secretly edified the throne of his successors, and dis­

played in a narrow space the virtues of a great prince.

His memory was revered; but in the next election, a

priest of the Lateran, Leo III. was preferred to the

nephew and the favourite of Hadrian, whom he had

promoted to the first dignities of the church. Their ac­

quiescence or repentance disguised, above four years, the

blackest intention of revenge, till the day of. a proces­

sion, when a furious band of conspirators dispersed the

unarmed multitude, and assaulted with blows and

wounds the sacred person of the pope. But their en­

terprise on his life or liberty was disappointed, perhaps

by their own confusion and remorse. Leo was left for

dead on the ground: on his revival from the swoon, the

effect of his loss of blood, he recovered his speech and

sight; and this natural event was improved to the mira­

culous restoration of his eyes and tongue, of which he

had been deprived, twice deprived, by the knife of the

assassins/ From his prison, he escaped to the Vatican;

the duke of Spoleto hastened to his rescue, Charlemagne

sympathized in his injury, and in his camp of Pader-

born in Westphalia accepted or solicited a visit from the

Roman pontiff. Leo repassed the Alps with a com­

mission of counts and bishops, the guards of his safety

Post pattem lacrymans Carolns tee carmina scipsi.

Tu mihi dulcis amor, te modo plango pater . . .

Nomina jungo simul titulis, clarissime, nostra

Adrianus, Carolns, rex ego, tuque pater.

The poetry might be supplied by Alcuin; but the tears, the most glorious
tribute,

can only belong to Charlemagne.

* Every new pope is admonished—" Sancte Pater, non videbis annos Petri,"  
twenty-five years. On the whole series the average is about eight years—a
short

hope for an ambitious cardinal.

J The assurance of Anastasius (torn. 3. pars 1. p. 197, 198.) is supported by
the

credulity of some French annalists ; but Egmhard, and other writers of the
same age,

are more natural and sincere. "Unus ei oculus paullulum est liesus," says John
the

deacon of Naples. (Vit. Episcop. Napol. in Scriptores Muratori, torn. 1. pars
•.'.

p. 31t.) Theodolphus, a contemporary bishop of Orleans, observes with
prudence,

(lib. 3. cam. 3.) /

Reddita snnt? minim est: minim est auferre nequisse.

Eat tamen in dubio, hinc mirer an inde magis.

