CHAP. XLVII. 41

the Roman pontiffs, of equal valour, though of unequal

strength, may be found at the two extremities of the

theological scale. The acephali, without a king or a

bishop, were separated above three hundred years from

the patriarchs of Alexandria, who had accepted the

communion of Constantinople, without exacting a for­

mal condemnation of the synod of Chalcedon. For

accepting the communion of Alexandria, without a

formal approbation of the same synod, the patriarchs

of Constantinople were anathematized by the popes.

Their inflexible despotism involved the most orthodox

of the Greek churches in this spiritual contagion, de­

nied or doubted the validity of their sacraments,' and

fomented, thirty-five years, the schism of the east and

west, till they finally abolished the memory of four

Byzantine pontiffs, who had dared to oppose the su­

premacy of St. Peter/ Before that period, the preca­

rious truce of Constantinople and Egypt had been vio­

lated by the zeal of the rival prelates. Macedonius,

who was suspected of the Nestorian heresy, asserted,

in disgrace and exile, the synod of Chalcedon, while

the successor of Cyril would have purchased its over­

throw with a bribe of two thousand pounds of gold.

The TrU- In the fever of the times, the sense, or rather

the sound of a syllable, was sufficient to disturb

the peace of an empire. TheTaiSAGioNg(thrice

to the bishoprics of Athribis and Talba, (perhaps Tava: see d'Anville, p. 82.)

and supplied the sacraments, which had failed for want of an episcopal
ordination.

'De his quos baptizavit, quos ordinavit Acacius, majorum traditione confectam

et MT.an, priecipue religiose solicitudini congruam prabemus sine difficultate
me-

dicinarn. (Galasius, in epist. 1. ad Euphemium, Condi, torn. .'• 286.) The
offer

of a medicine proves the disease, and numbers must have perished before the
ar-

•''. il of the Roman physician. Tillemont himself (Mern. Eccles. torn. 16. p.
Sit,

642, Sec.) is shocked at the proud uncharitable temper of the popes; they arc
now

glad, says he, to invoke St. Flavian of Antioch, St. Elias of Jerusalem, &c.
to

whom they refused communion whilst upon earth. But cardinal Baronius it firm

and hard as the rock of St. Peter.

•'Their names were erased from the diptych of the church: ex venerabili dip-

tycho, in quo pia memoriie transitum ad ccdum habentium episcoporum vocabula

condnentur. (Concil. torn. i. p. 1846.) This ecclesiastical record was
therefore

equivalent to the book of life.

t Petavios (Dogmat. Theolog. torn. 5. lib. 5. c. I—4. p. 217—3«5.) and TUle-

mont (Mern. Eccles. torn. 14. p. 713, &c. 799.) represent the history and
doctrine

of the Trisagion. In the twelve centuries between Isaiah and St. Proclus'a
boy,

