CHAP. XLVHI. 131

were preached by the monks and entertained by the

Greeks. Marriage was allowed as a necessary means

for the propagation of mankind: after the death of ei­

ther party, the survivor might satisfy, by a. second union,

the weakness or the strength of the flesh; but a third

marriage was censured as a state of legal fornication;

and a. fourth was a sin or scandal yet unknown to the

Christians of the east. In the beginning of his reign,

Leo himself had abolished the state of concubines, and

condemned, without annulling, third marriages; but his

patriotism and love soon compelled him to violate his

own laws, and to incur the penance, which in a similar

case he had imposed on his subjects. In his three first

alliances, his nuptial bed was unfruitful; the emperor

required a female companion, and the empire a legiti­

mate heir. The beautiful Zoe was introduced into the

palace as a concubine ; and after a trial of her fecundity,

and the birth of Constantine, her lover declared his in­

tention of legitimating the mother and the child, by the

celebration of his fourth nuptials. But the patriarch

Nicholas refused his blessing: the imperial baptism of

the young prince was obtained by a promise of separa­

tion; and the contumacious husband of Zoe was ex­

cluded from the communion of the faithful. Neither

the fear of exile, or the desertion of his brethren, nor the

authority of the Latin church, nor the danger of failure

or doubt in the succession to the empire, could bend

the spirit of the inflexible monk. After the death of

Leo, he was recalled from exile to the civil and ecclesi­

astical administration; and the edict of union which

•was promulgated in the name of Constantine, condemn­

ed the future scandal of fourth marriages, and left a

tacit imputation on his own birth.

In the Greek language purple and porphyry

H- 'are the same word: and as the colours of nature

Ftob "o- are invariable, we may learn, that a dark deep red

was tne Tyrian dye which stained the purple of

K 2

