CHAP. XLIX. 251

Weakness It is in the fourteenth century, that we may

tyc/the" view in the strongest light the state and con-

emneior trast o^tae Roman empire of Germany, which

chariesiv. no longer held, except on the borders of the

—1378. Rhine and Danube, a single province of Trajan

or Constantine. Their unworthy successors were the

counts of Hapsburg, of Nassau, of Luxemburgh, and of

Schwartzenburg: the emperor Henry VII. procured for

his son the crown of Bohemia, and his grandson

Charles IV. was born among a people, strange and

barbarous in the estimation of the Germans themselves."1

After the excommunication of Lewis of Bavaria, he

received the gift or promise of the vacant empire from

the Roman pontiffs, who, in the exile and captivity of

Avignon, affected the dominion of the earth. The

death of his competitors united the electoral college,

and Charles was unanimously saluted king of the Ro­

mans, and future emperor: a title which in the same

age was prostituted to the Caesars of Germany and

Greece. The German emperor was no more than the

elective and impotent magistrate of an aristocracy of

princes, who had not left him a village that he might call

his own. His best prerogative was the right of presiding

and proposing in the national senate, which was con­

vened at his summons; and his native kingdom of Bo­

hemia, less opulent than the adjacent city of Nurem-

burg, was the firmest seat of his power and the richest

source of his revenue. The army -with which he

author of the best legal and constitutional history that I know of any
country.

(Nouvel Abrege Chronologique de 1'Histoire et du Droit Public d'Allemagne,

Paris, 1776, 2 vols. in 4to.) His learning and judgment have discerned the
moat

interesting facts; his simple brevity comprises them in a narrow space; his
chro­

nological order distributes them under the proper dates; and an elaborate
index

collects them under their respective heads. To this work, in a less perfect
state,

Dr. Robertson was gratefully indebted for that masterly sketch which traces
even

the modem changes of the Germanic body. The Corpus Historia e Germanica e of

Struvius has been likewise consulted, the more usefully, as that huge
compilation

is fortified in every page with the original texts.

"Yet personally, Charles IV. must not be considered as a barbarian. After his

education at Paris, he recovered the use of the Bohemian, his native, idiom;
and

the emperor conversed and wrote with equal facility in French, Latin, Italian,

and German. (Struvius, p. 613, 616.) Petrarch always represents him as a
polite

and learned prince.

