192 ROMAN EMPIRE.

monarchy. During ten pure and fortunate years (says

Gregory to the emperor), we have tasted the annual

comforts of your royal letters, subscribed in purple ink

with your own hand, the sacred pledges of your attach­

ment to the orthodox creed of our fathers. How deplor­

able is the change! how tremendous the scandal! You

now accuse the Catholics of idolatry: and, by the accusa­

tion, you betray your own impiety and ignorance. To

this ignorance we are compelled to adapt the grossness of

our style and arguments: the first elements of holy let­

ters are sufficient for your confusion; and were you to

enter a grammar-school, and avow yourself the enemy of

our worship, the simple and pious children would be pro­

voked to cast their horn-books at your head. After this

decent salutation, the pope attempts the usual distinc­

tion between the idols of antiquity and the Christian

images. The former were the fanciful representations

of phantoms or demons, at a time when the true God

had not manifested his person in any visible likeness.

The latter are the genuine forms of Christ, his mother,

and his saints, who had approved, by a crowd of mira­

cles, the innocence and merit of this relative worship.

He must indeed have trusted to the ignorance of Leo,

since he could assert the perpetual use of images, from

the apostolic age, and their venerable presence in the

six synods of the Catholic church. A more specious

argument is drawn from the present possession and

recent practice: the harmony of the Christian world

supersedes the demand of a general council; and Gre­

gory frankly confesses, that such assemblies can only

be useful under the reign of an orthodox prince. To

the impudent and inhuman Leo, more guilty than a he­

retic, he recommends peace, silence, and implicit obe­

dience to his spiritual guides of Constantinople and

Rome. The limits of civil and ecclesiastical powers

are defined by the pontiff. To the former he ap­

propriates the body; to the latter the soul: the sword

