58 ROMAN EMPIRE,

and useful allies of Rome were taught to consider the

emperor not as the chief, but as the enemy of the Chris­

tians. Language, the leading principle which unites

or separates the tribes of mankind, soon discriminated

the sectaries of the east, by a peculiar and perpetual

badge, which abolished the means of intercourse and

Perpetual the hope of reconciliation. The long domi-

ortheorT nion of the Greeks, their colonies, and, above all,

entai sects, their eloquence, had propagated a language,

doubtless the most perfect that has been contrived by

the art of man. Yet the body of the people, both in

Syria and Egypt, still persevered in the use of their na­

tional idioms; with this difference, however, that the

Coptic was confined to the rude and illiterate peasants

of the Nile, while the Syriac," from the mountains of

Assyria to the Red sea, was adapted to the higher topics

of poetry and argument. Armenia and Abyssinia were

infected by the speech or learning of the Greeks; and

their barbaric tongues, which had been revived in the

studies of modern Europe, were unintelligible to the in­

habitants of the Roman empire. The Syriac and the

Coptic, the Armenian and the Ethiopic, are consecrated

in the service of their respective churches; and their

theology is enriched by domestic versions,' both of the

Scriptures and of the most popular fathers. After a

period of thirteen hundred and sixty years, the spark of

controversy, first kindled by a sermon of Nestorius, still

burns in the bosom of the east, and the hostile com­

munions still maintain the faith and discipline of their

* The Syriac, which the natives revere as the primitive language, was divided

into three dialects 1. The Aramtean, as it was refined at Edessa and the
cities of

Mesopotamia. 2. The Palestine, which was used in Jerusalem, Damascus.and the

rest of Syria, 3. The Nabathwan. the rustic idiom of the mountains of Assyria
and

the villages of Irak. (Gregor. Abulpharag. Hist. Dynast, p. 11.) On the
Syriac,

nee Ebed. Jesu, (Asseman. torn. 3. p. 326, &c.) whose prejudice alone could
prefer

'I shall not enrich my ignorance with the spoils of Simon, Walton, Mill, Wet-

stein, Assemannus, Ludolphos,'La Croze, whom I have consulted with some care.

It appears, 1. That of all the versions which are celebrated by the Others, it
is

doubtful whether any are now extant in their pristine integrity. 2. That the
Sy­

riac has the best claim; and that the consent of the oriental sects is a proof
that

it is more ancient than their schisrn.

