4 ROMAN EMPIRE.

thew,d which these sectaries long preserved in the ori­

ginal Hebrew6 as the sole evidence of their faith. The

natural suspicions of the husband, conscious of his own

chastity, were dispelled by the assurance (in a dream)

that his wife was pregnant of the Holy Ghost: and as

this distant and domestic prodigy could not fall under

the personal observation of the historian, he must have

listened to the same voice which dictated to Isaiah the

future conception of a virgin. The son of a virgin, ge­

nerated by the ineffable operation of the Holy Spirit,

was a creature without example or resemblance, supe­

rior in every attribute of mind and body to the children

of Adam. Since the introduction of the Greek or Chal­

dean philosophy/ the Jews8 were persuaded of the pre-

existence, transmigration, and immortality of souls; and

Providence was justified by a supposition, that they were

confined in their earthly prisons to expiate the stains

"which they had contracted in a former state.11 But the

degrees of purity and corruption are almost immeasur­

d The two first chapters of St. Matthew did not exist in the Ebionite copies;

(F.liiphan. Haeres. 3O. 13.) and the miraculous conception is one of the last
articles

which Dr. Priestley has curtailed from his scanty creed.

'It is probable enough that the first of the gospels, for the use of the
Jewish con­

verts, was composed in the Hebrew or Syriac idiom; the fact is attested by a
chain

of fathers—Papias, Irenzeus, Origen, Jerome, &c. It is devoutly believed by
the

Catholics, and admitted by Casaubon, Grotius, and Isaac Vosshis, among the
Pro­

testant critics. But this Hebrew Gospel of St. Matthew is mostunaccountably
lost;

. and we may accuse the diligence or fidelity of the primitive churches, who
have pre­

ferred the unauthorized version of some nameless Greek. Erasmus and his
follow­

ers, who respect our Greek text as the original gospel, deprive themselves of
the

evidence which declares it to be the work of an apostle. See Simon, Hist.
Critique,

&c. torn. 3. c. 5—9. p. 47—101. and the Prolegomena of Mill and Wetstein to
the

New Testament.

1 The metaphysics of the soul are disengaged by Cicero, (Tusculan, lib. 1.)
and

Maximus of Tyre, (Dissertat. 16.) from the intricacies of dialogue, which
some­

times amuse, and often perplex, the readers of the Phasdrus, the Phaedon, and
the

Laws of Plato.

* The disciples of Jesus were persuaded that a man might have sinned before he  
was born, (John ix. 2.) and the Pharisees held the transmigration of virtuous
souls,

(Joseph, de Bell. Judaico, lib. 9. c. 7.) and a modern rabbi is modestly
assured

that Hermes, Pythagoras, Plato, &c. derived their metaphysics from his
illustrious

countrymen.

i' Four different opinions have been entertained concerning the origin of
human

souln.—l. That they are eternal and divine.—2. That they were created in a
sepa­

rate state of existence, before their union with the body.—3. That they have
been

propagated from the original stock of Adam, who contained in himself the
mental

as well as the corporeal seed of his posterity.—4. That each soul is
occasionally

created and embodied in the moment of conception. The last of these sentiments

appears to have prevailed among the moderns; and our spiritual history is
grown

lesi sublime, without becoming more intelligible.

