,'J20 ROMAN EMPIRE.

sulmans, and their disappointment might justly accuse

the failure of a prophet who had so often appealed to

the evidence of success. The faith and hope of the

pilgrims were rekindled by the prospect of Mecca: then-

swords were sheathed; seven times in the footsteps of

the apostle they encompassed the Caaba: the Koreish

had retired to the hills, and Mahomet, after the custo足

mary sacrifice, evacuated the city on the fourth day.

The people were edified by his devotion; the hostile

chiefs were awed, or divided, or seduced; and both Ca-

led and Amrou, the future conquerors of Syria and

Egypt, most seasonably deserted the sinking cause of

idolatry. The power of Mahomet was increased by the

submission of the Arabian tribes: ten thousand soldiers

were assembled for the conquest of Mecca; and the

idolaters, the weaker party, were easily convicted of vio足

lating the truce. Enthusiasm and discipline impelled

the march, and preserved the secret, till the blaze of ten

thousand fires proclaimed to the astonished Koreish, the

design, the approach, and the irresistible force of the

enemy. The haughty Abu Sophian presented the keys

of the city, admired the variety of arms and ensigns that

passed before him in review; observed that the son of

Abdallah had acquired a mighty kingdom, and con足

fessed, under the scimitar of Omar, that he was the

apostle of the true God. The return of Marius and

Sylla was stained with the blood of the Romans: the

revenge of Mahomet was stimulated by religious zeal,

and his injured followers were eager to execute or to

prevent the order of a massacre. Instead of indulging

their passions and his own," the victorious exile forgave

the guilt, and united the factions of Mecca. His troops,

* After the conquest of Mecca, the Mahomet of Voltaire imagines and perpe足  
trates the most horrid crimes. The poet confesses, that he w not supported by
the

truth of history, and can only allege, que celui qui fait la guerre a sa
patrie au nom

do Diem, est capable de tout. (Oeuvres de Voltaire, torn. 15. p. 282.) The
maxim

is neither charitable nor philosophic; and some reverence is surely due to the
fame

of heroes and the religion of nations. I am informed that a Turkish ambassador

at Paris was much scandalized at the representation of this tragedy.

