40 ROMAN EMPIRE.

thority of the magistrate can only be maintained by the

concord of the people. It is in ecclesiastical story, that

Zeno appears less contemptible; and I am not able to

discern any Manichaean or Eutychian guilt in the ge­

nerous saying of Anastasius, that it was unworthy of

an emperor to persecute the worshippers of Christ and

the citizens of Rome. The Henoticon was most pleas­

ing to the Egyptians; yet the smallest blemish has not

been described by the jealous and even jaundiced eyes

of our orthodox schoolmen; and it accurately represents

the Catholic faith of the incarnation, without adopting

or disclaiming the peculiar terms or tenets of the hostile

sects. A solemn anathema is pronounced against Nes-

toriusand Eutyches; againstall heretics by whom Christ

is divided, or confounded, or reduced to a phantom.

Without defining the number or the article of the word

nature, the pure system of St. Cyril, the faith of Nice,

Constantinople, and Ephesus, is respectfully confirmed;

but, instead of bowing at the name of the fourth coun­

cil, the subject is dismissed by the censure of all con­

trary doctrines, if any such have been taught either

elsewhere or at Chalcedon. Under this ambiguous ex­

pression, the friends and the enemies of the last synod

might unite in a silent embrace. The most reasonable

Christians acquiesced in this mode of toleration; but

their reason wasfeeble and inconstant,and their obedience

was despised as timid and servile by the vehement spirit

of their brethren. On a subject which engrossed the

thoughts and discourses of men, it was difficult to pre­

serve an exact neutrality; a book, a sermon, a prayer,

rekindled the flame of controversy; and the bonds of

communion were alternately broken and renewed by the

private animosity of the bishops. The space between

Nestorius and Eutyches was filled by a thousand shades

of language and opinion; the acephali4 of Egypt, and

"See lUnaudot. (Hist . Patriarch. Alex. p. 123. 131. 145. 195—347.) They

ware recontiled by the care of Mark I. (A. D. 799—819.) he promoted their
chiefo

