382 ROMAN EMPIRE.

and his grandfather; his uncles were strong and nume­

rous; and in the division of the inheritance, the or­

phan's. share was reduced to five camels and an Ethio­

pian maid-servant. At home and abroad, in peace and

war, Abu Taleb, the most respectable of his uncles,

was the guide and guardian of his youth; in his twea-

ty-fifth year, he entered into the service of Cadijah,

a rich and noble widow of Mecca, who soon rewarded

his fidelity with the gift of her hand and fortune. The

marriage-contract, in the simple style of antiquity. , re­

cites the mutual loves of Mahomet and Cadija; de­

scribes him as the most accomplished of the tribe of

Korr.ish; and stipulates a dowry of twelve ounces pf

gold and twenty camels, which was supplied by the li­

berality of his uncle." By this alliance the son of Ab-

dallah was restored to the station of his ancestors; and

the judicious matron was content with his domestic

virtues, till, in the fortieth year of his age,y he assumed

the title of a prophet, and proclaimed the religion of the

Koraq.

According to the tradition of his compa-

Qualifica- . mr i i . . • i i i' * i_

nions, Mahomet2 was distinguished by the

prophet. beauty of his person, an outward gift which is

seldom despised, except by those to whom it has beeq

refused. Before he spoke, the orator engaged Ojn, hj$

side the affections of a public or private audieuce.

* I copy the honourable testimony of Abu Taleb to his family and nephew.  
Laus Dei, qui nos a stirpe Abrahami et qemine ismaelis consatuit, et nobis
regi-

onem sacram dedit, et nos judices hominibus statuit. Poro Mohammed filius AD-

dollahi nepotia mei (nepoi meat) quo cum ex aequo librabitur e Korashidis .
juis-

piam cui non prscponderaturus est bonitate et excellentia, et intellect^ et
glona e.t

acumiae etsi opum inops fuerit (et certe opes umbra transiens sunt etdepositum
quod

reddi debet), desiderio Chadijae filia e Chowailedi tenetur, et ilia vicissim
ipsius,

quicquid autem dotis vice petieritis, ego in me suscipiarn. (Pocock, Specimen,
e

septima parte libri Ebn Uamduni.)

» The private life of Mahomet, from his birth to his mission, is preserved by

Abulfeda, (in Vit. c. 3 — 7.) and the Arabian writers of genuine or apocryphal

note, who are alleged by Hottinger, (Hist. Orient , p. 204 — 211.) Maracci,
(,1901.

1. p. 10—14.) and Gagnier. (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 97—134).

1 Abulfeda, in Vit , c. 65, 66. Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 37f —
289.

the bes.t traditions of the person and conversation of the prophet are derived
from

Ayesha, Ali and Abu Horaira, (Gagnier, torn. 2. p. 267. Ockley's Hist, of the

Saracens, voU 3. p. 149.) suniamed the father of a cat, who died in the year
59

of i he Hegira.

