CMAP. XLVII. 51

synod, whose name was pronounced with sincere or af­

fected reverence by the Catholic world. If these bishops,

whether innocent or guilty, were annihilated in the

sleep of death, they would not probably be awakened

by the clamour, which after a hundred years was raised

over their grave. If they were already in the fangs of

the demon, their torments could neither be aggravated

nor assuaged by human industry. If in the cortfpany

of saints and angels they enjoyed the rewards of piety,

they must have smiled at the idle fury of the theologi­

cal insects who still crawled on the surface of the earth.

The foremost of these insects, the emperor of the Ro­

mans, darted his sting, and distilled the venom, perhaps

without discerning the true motives of Theodora and

her ecclesiastical faction. The victims were no longet

subject to his power, and the vehement style of his edicts

could only proclaim their damnation, and invite the

clergy of the east to join in a full chords of curses and

FHa» ge- anathemas. The- east, with e&me hesitation,

council of consented to the voice of her sovereign: the

tj^pj!T fiftn general council, of three patriarchs and one

A.D.553, hundred and sixty five bishops was held at

June«. ConSfentinople; and the authors, as well as

the defenders of the three chapters, were separated from

the communion of the saints, and solemnly delivered to

the prince of darkness. But the Latin churches were

more jealous of the honour of Leo and the synod of

Chalcedon; and if they had fought as they usually did

under the standard of Rome, they might have prevailed

in the cause of reason and humanity. But their chief

was a prisoner in the hands of the enemy, the throne of

St. Peter, which had been disgraced by the simorty, was

betrayed by the cowardice of Vigilius, who yielded,

after a long and inconsistent struggle, to the despotism

of Justinian and the sophistry of the Greeks. His apo-

stacy provoked the indignation of the Latins, and nfc'

more than two bishops could be found who would itn-

E2

