CHAP. LI. 459

vate zeal and public toleration.1 Under the payment of

an annual tribute, the Mahometan law secured to the

Ghebers of Herat their civil and religious liberties: but

the recent and humble mosch was overshadowed by the

antique splendour of the adjoining temple of fire. A fa­

natic imam deplored, in his sermons, the scandalous

neighbourhood, and accused the weakness or indiffer­

ence of the faithful. Excited by his voice, the people

assembled in tumult; the two houses of prayer were con­

sumed by the flames, but the vacant ground was imme­

diately occupied by the foundations of a new mosch.

The injured Magi appealed to the sovereign of Chorasan;

he promised justice and relief; when, behold! four thou­

sand citizens of Herat, of a grave character and mature

age, unanimously swore that the idolatrous fane had

never existed; the inquisition was silenced, and their

conscience was satisfied (says the historian Mirchond1)

with this holy and meritorious perjury." But the great­

est part of the temples of Persia were ruined by the in­

sensible and general desertion of their votaries. It was

insensible, since it is not accompanied with any memo­

rial of time or place, of persecution or resistance. It

was general, since the whole realm, from Shiraz to Sa-

marcand, imbibed the faith of the Koran; and thepre­

• This singular story is related by d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient, p. 448,
449.)

on the faith of Khondemir, and by Mirchond himself. (Hist, priorum Regum

Persaruio, &c. p. 9,10. not. p. 88,99.)

'Mirchond (Mohammed Emir Khoondah Shah), a native of Herat, composed

in the Penian language a general history of the east, from the creation to the

year of the Hegira 875. (A. D. 1471.) In the year 904, (A. D. 1498.) the his­

torian obtained the command of a princely library, and his applauded work, in

seven or twelve parts, was abbreviated in three volumes by his son Khondemir,

A. H. 927. A.D. 1520. The two writers, most accurately distinguished by Petit

de la Croix, (Hist, de Genghizcan, p. 537, 538. 544,545.) are loosely
confounded

by d'Herbelot: (p. 358. 410. 994, 995.) but his numerous extracts, under the

improper name of Khondemir, belong to the father rather than the son. The his­

torian of Gonghizcan refers to a MS. of Mirchond, which he received from the

hands of his friend d' Herbelot himself. A curious fragment (the Tahcrian and

Sofiarian Dynasties) has been lately published in Persic and Latin; (Vienna,

1782, in quarto, cum notis Bernard de Jenisch) and the editor allows us to
hope

for a continuation of Mirchond.

"Quo testimtmio boni se quidpiam praestitisse opinabantur. Yet Mirchond

must have condemned their zeal, since he approved the legal toleration of the

Magi, cui (the fire temple) peracto singulis annis censfl, uti sacra Mobammedw

lege cautum, ab omnibus molestiis ac oneribus libero esse limit.

