CHAP. XLVIi: 63

self that they would gradually perceive the temporal

benefits of union with the empire and the church of

Rome; and if he failed in exciting their gratitude, he

might hope to provoke the jealousy of their sovereign.

In a later age, the Lutherans have been burnt at Paris,

and protected in Germany, by the superstition and po­

licy of the most Christian king.

Their mis- ^he desire of gaining souls for God, and sub-

sjons in jects for the church, has excited in every age the

India,' diligence of the Christian priests. From the

A^'SOO conquest of Persia they carried their spiritual

—1200. arms to the north, the east, and the south; and

the simplicity of the gospel was fashioned and painted

with the colours of the Syriac theology. In the sixth

century, according to the report of a Nestorian travel­

ler,* Christianity was successfully preached to the Bac-

trians, the Huns,'the Persians, the Indians, the Parsar-

menians, the Medes, and the Ekmites: the barbaric

churches, from the gulf of Persia to the Caspian sea,

were almost infinite; and their recent faith was con­

spicuous in the number and sanctity of their monks and

martyrs. The pepper coast of Malabar, and the isles

of the ocean, Socotora and Ceylon, were peopled with

an increasing multitude of Christians, and the bishops

and clergy of those sequestered regions derived their

ordination from the Catholic of Babylon. In a subse­

quent age, the zeal of the Nestorians overleaped the

limits, which had confined the ambition and curosity

* See the Topographia Christiana of Cosmas, sumamed Indico-pleustes, or the  
radian navigator, lib. 3. p. 178, 179. lib. 11. f. 337.—The entire work, of
which

some curious extracts may be found in Photius, (cod. 36. p. 9,10. edit.
HoescheL)

Thevenot, (in the first part of bis Relation des Voyages, £c.) and Fabricius,
(Bib-

fiot. Graec. lib. 3. c. 25. torn. 2. p. 603—617.) has been published by father
Mont-

feucon at Paris, 1707, in the Nova Collectio Patrurn. (torn. 2. p. 113—346.)
It

was the design of the author to confute the impious heresy of those who
maintain

that the earth is a globe, and not a flat oblong table, as it is represented
in the Scrip­

tures. (Kb. 2. p. 138.) But the nonsense of the monk is mingled with the
practical

knowledge of the traveller, who performed his voyage, A. D.522. and published
his

book at Alexandria, A. D. 547. (lib. 2. p. 140, 141. Montfaucon, Prafat. c.
2.)

The Nestorianism of Cosmas, unknown to his learned editor, was detected by La

Croze, (Christiauisme deslndes, torn. 1. p. 40—55.) and is confirmed by
Aesemanai.

(Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 605, 606.)

