CHAP. XLVIII. 171

prus was not more propitious to the rebel than to the

tyrant. His throne was subverted by a rival without

merit, and a people without arms. Isaac Angehis, a

descendant in the female line from the great Alexius,

was marked as a victim, by the prudence or superstition

of the emperor. In a moment of despair, Angelus de­

fended his life and liberty, slew the executioner, and fled

to the church of St. Sophia. The sanctuary was insen­

sibly filled with a curious and mournful crowd, who, in

his fate, prognosticated their own. But their lamenta­

tions were soon turned to curses, and their curses to

threats: they dared to ask, Why do we fear? why do

we obey? we are many, and he is one; our patience is

the only bond of our slavery. With the dawn of day

the city burst into a general sedition, the prisons were

thrown open, the coldest and most servile were roused

to the defence of their country, and Isaac, the second

of the name, was raised from the sanctuary to the

throne. Unconscious of his danger, the tyrant was ab­

sent; withdrawn from the toils of state, in the delicious

islands of the Propontis. He had contracted an inde­

cent marriage with Alice, or Agnes, daughter of Lewis

VII. of France, and relict of the unfortunate Alexius:

and his society, more suitable to his temper than to his

age, was composed of a young wife and a favourite con­

cubine. On the first alarm he rushed to Constanti­

nople, impatient for the blood of the guilty; but he was

astonished by the silence of the palace, the tumult of the

city, and the general desertion of mankind. Andronicus

proclaimed a free pardon to his subjects; they neither

desired nor would grant forgiveness: he offered to re­

sign his crown to his son Manuel; but the virtues of

the son could not expiate his father's crimes. The sea

was still open for his retreat; but the news of the revo­

lution had flown along the coast; when fear had ceased,

obedience was no more; the imperial galley was pur­

sued and taken by an armed brigantine; and the tyrant

