CHAP. XLIX. 181

host of heaven presumes not to behold? HE, who dwells

in heaven, condescends this day to visit us by his venerable

image; HE, who is seated on the cherubim, visits us this

day by a picture, which the Father has delineated with

his immaculate hand, which he has formed in an ineffable

manner, and which we sanctify by adoring it with fear

and love. Before the end of the sixth century, these

images, made without hands (in Greek it is a single

word'), were propagated in the camps and cities of the

eastern empire ;m they were the objects of worship, and

the instruments of miracles; and, in the hour of

3 danger or tumult, their venerable presence could

revive the hope, rekindle the courage, or repress the fury,

of the Roman legions. Of these pictures, the far greater

part, the transcripts of a human pencil , could only pretend

to a secondary likeness and improper title: but there

were some of higher descent, who derived their resem­

blance from an immediate contact with the original,

endowed, for that purpose, with a miraculous and pro­

lific virtue. The most ambitious aspired from a filial

to a fraternal relation with the image of Edessa; and

such is the veronica of Rome, or Spain, or Jerusalem,

which Christ in his agony and bloody sweat applied

to his face, and delivered to a holy matron. The

fruitful precedent was speedily transferred to the Vir­

gin Mary," and the saints and martyrs. In the church

of Diospolis, in Palestine, the features of the mother

of God "were deeply inscribed on a marble column:

See Duncage, in Gloss. GKEC. et Lat. The subject is treated

with equal learning and bigotry by the Jesuit Grctsrr, (Syntagma de Imaginibus

non .Mann factis, ad calcem Codini de Officiis. p. 289 — 330.) the ass, or
rather

the fox, of Ingoldstadt (see the Scaligerana ; ) with equal reason and wit by
the

Protestant Beausobre, in the ironical controversy which he has spread through

many volumes of the Bibliotheque Germanique. (torn. 1. p. 18 — 50. 20. p. V —

68. 25. p. 1 — 46. 27. p. 85—112. 28. p. 1—33. 31. p. 111—148. 32. p. 75— 107.

34. p. 67—96.)

"Theophylact Simocatta (lib. 2. c. 3. p. 34. lib. 3. c. 1. p. 63.) celebrates
the

Bmifour uiUTfut, which he styles a)fiifmairm; yet it was no more than a copy,

since he adds apxtmr.,v TO txtim a Fx/juuai (of Edessa) fipnffiuunxri TI
affwra. See

Pagi, torn. 2. A.D. 586. no. 11.

0 See in the genuine or supposed works of John Damascenus, two passages on

the Virgin and St. Luke, which have not been noticed by Greteer, nor
consequently

hy Beausobre. (Opera, Job. Damascen. torn. 1, p. 618. 631.)

