CHAP. XLVIf. 95

scended from the throne with indignation, and sought

a refuge in the female apartment of the palace. The

reign of Constantine III. lasted only one hundred and

three days: he expired in the thirtieth year of his age,

and although his life had been a long malady, a belief

was entertained that poison had been the means, and

his cruel step-mother the author, of his untimely fate.

Heracie- Martina reaped indeed the harvest of his

AJD. 64i, death, and assumed the government in the name

M3?*5. of the surviving emperor; but the incestuous

widow of Heraclius was universally abhorred; the jea­

lousy of the people was awakened, and the two orphans

whom Constantine had left, became the objects of the'

public care. It was in vain that the son of Martina,

who was no more than fifteen years of age, was taught

to declare himself the guardian of his nephews, one of

whom he had presented at the baptismal font: it was

in vain that he swore on the wood of the true cross, to

defend them against all their enemies. On his death­

bed, the late emperor dispatched a trusty servant to arm

the troops and provinces of the east in the defence of

his helpless children: the eloquence and liberality of

Valentin had been successful, and, from his camp of

Chalcedon, he boldly demanded the punishment of the

assassins, and the restoration of the lawful heir. The

licence of the soldiers, who devoured the grapes and

drank the wine of their Asiatic vineyards, provoked the

citizens of Constantinople against the domestic authors

of their calamities, and the dome of St. Sophia re-echo­

ed, not with prayers and hymns, but with the clamours

and imprecations of an enraged multitude. At their

imperious command, Hejacleonas appeared in the pul­

pit with the eldest of the royal orphans; Constans alone

was saluted as emperor of the Romans, and A crown of

gold, which had been taken from the tomb of Hera­

clius, was placed on his head, with the solemn benedic­

tion of the patriarch. But in the tumult of joy and in-

