116 ROMAN EMPIRE.

fied, or rather was produced by the event. Ten years

afterward, when the Thracian camp rejected the hus­

band of Procopia, the crown was presented to the same

Leo, the first in military rank and the secret author of

the mutiny. As he affected to hesitate,—with this

sword (said his companion Michael) / will open the

gates of Constantinople to your imperial sway; or in­

stantly plunge it into your bosom, if you obstinately resist

the just desires of your fellow-soldiers. The compliance

of the Armenian was rewarded with the empire, and he

reigned seven years and a half under the name of Leo

V. Educated in a camp, and ignorant both of laws and

letters, he introduced into his civil government the ri­

gour and even cruelty of military discipline; but if his

severity was sometimes dangerous to the innocent, it

was always formidable to the guilty. His religious

inconstancy was taxed by the epithet of chameleon, but

the Catholics have acknowledged by the voice of a saint

and confessors, that the life of the Iconoclast was use­

ful to the republic. The zeal of his companion Mi­

chael was repaid with riches, honours, and military

command; and his subordinate talents were beneficially

employed in the public service. Yet the Phrygian

was dissatisfied at receiving as a favour a scanty portion

of the imperial prize, which he had bestowed on his

equal; and his discontent, which sometimes evaporated

in a hasty discourse, at length assumed a more threat­

ening and hostile aspect against a prince whom he

represented as a cruel tyrant. That tyrant, however,

repeatedly detected, warned, and dismissed the old

companion of his arms, till fear and resentment pre­

vailed over gratitude; and Michael, after a scrutiny

into his actions, was convicted of treason, and sen­

tenced to be burnt alive in the furnace of the private

baths. The devout humanity of the empress Theo-

phano was fatal to her husband and family. A solemn

day, the twenty-fifth of December, had been fixed for

