476 ROMAN EMPIRE.

armies; and this discovery or improvement of the mili­

tary art was fortunately reserved for the distressful period,

when the degenerate Romans of the east were incapable

of contending with the warlike enthusiasm and youthful

vigour of the Saracens. The historian who presumes to

analyze this extraordinary composition, should suspect

his own ignorance, and that of his Byzantine guides, so

prone to the marvellous, so careless, and, in this instance,

so jealous of the truth. From their obscure, and perhaps

fallacious hints, it should seem that the principal ingre­

dient of the Greek fire was the naptha,* or liquid bitu­

men, a light, tenacious, and inflammable oil,* which

springs from the earth, and catches fire as soon as it comes

in contact with the air. The naptha was mingled, I

know not by what methods or in what proportions, with

sulphur and with the pitch that is extracted from ever­

green firs." From this mixture, which produced a thick

smoke and a loud explosion, proceeded a fierce and ob­

stinate flame,which not only rose in perpendicular ascent,

but likewise burnt with equal vehemence in descent or

lateral progress; instead of being extinguished, it was

nourished and quickened, by the element of water; and

sand, urine, or vinegar, were the only remedies that

could damp the fury of this powerful agent, which was

• The naptha, the oleum iucendiarium of, the history of Jerusalem, (Gest. Dei
per

Francos, p. 1167.) the oriental fountain of James de Vitry, (lib. 3. c. 84.)
is intro­

duced on slight evidence and strong probability. Cinnamus (lib. 6. p. Iti5.)
calls

the Greek fire m( MnJiaov; and the naptha is known to abound between the
Tigris

and the Caspian sea. According to Pliny, (Hist. Natur. 2.109.) it was
subservient

to the revenge of Medea, and in either etymology the iXaiov Mn.Vt;, or Mr?;.-
-,

(Procop. de Bell. Gothic lib. 4. c. 11.) may fairly signify this liquid
bitumen.

1 On the different sorts of oils and bitumens. See Dr. Watson's (the present
bishop

of Llandaff's) Chemical Essays, vol. 3. essay 1. a classic book, the best
adapted

to infuse the taste and knowledge of chemistry. Tin' less perfect ideas of the
an­

cients may be found in Strabo (Geograph. lib. 16. p. 1078.) and Pliny. (Hist.
Natur.

2.108,109-) Huic (Nopt/iff) magna cognatio est ignium, transiliuntque protinus
in

earn vradecunque visarn. Of our travellers lam best pleased with Otter, (torn.
l.p.

153—158.)

"Anna Cotnnena has partly drawn aside the curtain. Ar= rut vtiant, «' >XX*r

Tivafl TOIOUTW )ivfyw( afitflnXwy rovayITai ^axfuov aKauarov. Tflirro JUITA
flfwu TfiQsfAersr

fliU{3aXXiTai ft; auXiraouf xaXaituov icai tyt^vraTai ttttga TOU vai^orro;
Xa0p« Mai ovn%ti

mtvfMTi. (Alexiad. lib. 13. p. 383.) Elsewhere (lib. 11. p. 336.) she mentions
the

property of burning, HUTU TB frpan; ui iif' 'aumyi. Leo, in the nineteenth
chapter

of his Tactics, (Opera Meursu, torn. 6. p. 813. edit. Lami, Florent. 174A.)
speaks

of the new invention of vuf pint @pom; «u xumw. These are genuine and Imperial

testimonies.

