CHAP. XLVII. 73

stiH enjoy, under their Turkish masters, a free religion,

and a mitigated servitude. Their domestic governors

are chosen among the ancient nobility; the patriarch,

in his monastery of Canobin, still fancies himself on the

throne of Antioch; nine bishops compose his synod,

and one hundred and fifty priests, who retain the li­

berty of marriage, are intrusted with the care of one

hundred thousand souls. Their country extends from

the ridge of mount Libanus to the shores of Tripoli;

and the gradual descent affords, in a narrow space,

each variety of soil and climate, from the Holy Cedars,

erect under the weight of snow," to the vine, the mul­

berry, and the olive trees of the fruitful valley. In the

twelfth century, the Maronites, abjuring the Monothe-

lite error, were reconciled to the Latin churches of An-

tioeh and Rome/ and the same alliance has been fre^

quently renewed by the ambition of the popes and the

distress of the Syrians. But it may reasonably be

questioned, whether their union has ever been perfect

or sincere; and the learned Maronites of the college of

Rome have vainly laboured to absolve their ancestors

from the guilt of heresy and schism/

iv. THE IV. Since the age of Cohstantine, the AR-

ABMB- . ° *

MENiANs'had signalized their attachment to

XIAH8.

1 In tin- last century twenty large cedars still remained, (Voyage de laRoque,

torn. 1. p. <.!!—76.) at present they are reduced to four or five. (Volney,
ton. 1.

p. 264.) These trees so famous in Scripture, were guarded by excommunication;

the woo/d was sparingly borrowed for small crosses, etc. an annual mass was
chan­

ted under their shade; and they were endowed by tho Syrians with a sensitive

paver of erecting their branches to repel the (now, to which Mount Libanus is
leu

faithful than it is painted by Tacitus; inter ardores opacum fidumque
nivibus—a

daring metaphor! (Hist. 5. 6.)

> The evidence of William of Tyre (Hiet. in Gestis Dai per Francos, lib. 2g.
c.

8. p. 1022.) is copied or confirmed by Jacques de Vitra. (Hist. Hierosolyrn.
lib. 2.

c. 17. p. 1093,1094.) But this unnatural league expired with the power of the

Fcanks; and Abulpharagius, (who died in 1386) considers the Maronitea as a
sect

of Monothelites. (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 292.)

* I find a description and history of the Maronites in the Voyage de la Syrie et  
tin Mont Liban par la Roque. (2 vols. in 1 '.'mo. Amsterdam, 1723,
particularly torn.

1. p. 42—47. p. 174—184. torn. 2. p. 10—120.) In the ancient part, he copies

the prejudices of Nairon and the other Maronites at Rome, which Assemannus is

afraid to renounce, and ashamed to support , Jablonski, (Institut. Hist.
Christ,

torn. 3. p. 186.) Niebuhr, (Voyaga de 1'Arabic, &c. torn. t. p. 346. 370—3il.)

aad, above all, the judicious Volney, (Voyage en Egypte et en Syrie, torn. ft.
p.

8—31. Paris. 1787.) may be consulted.

"The religion of the Armenians is briefly described by La Croze. (Hut , du

