506 ROMAN EMPIRE.

were inscribed in the military roll; and above three hun­

dred thousand persons of every denomination marched

under the black standard of the Abbassides. They

swept the surface of Asia Minor far beyond Tyana

and Ancyra, and invested the Pontic Heraclea,h once a

flourishing state, now a paltry town; at that time capa­

ble of sustaining in her antique walls a month's siege

against the forces of the east. The ruin was complete,

the spoil was ample; but if Harun had been conversant

with Grecian story, he would have regretted the statue

of Hercules, whose attributes, the club, the bow, the

quiver, and the lion's hide, were sculptured in massy

gold. The progress of desolation by sea and land, from

the Euxine to the isle of Cyprus, compelled the emperor

Nicephorus to retract his haughty defiance. In the new

treaty the ruins of Heraclea were left for ever as a lesson

and a trophy; and the coin of the tribute was marked with

the image and superscription of Harun and his three

sons.' Yet this plurality of lords might contribute

to remove the dishonour of the Roman name. After the

death of their father, the heirs of the caliph were in­

volved in civil discord, and the conqueror, the liberal Al-

mamon, was sufficiently engaged in the restoration of

domestic peace and the introduction of foreign science.

The Arabs Under the reign of Almamon at Bagdad, of

subdue the Michael, the Stammerer at Constantinople, the

Crete, islands of Crete1 and Sicily were subdued by the

A T) R9'?

"""• Arabs. The former of these conquests is dis­

k M. D.Tournefort, in his coasting voyage from Constantinople to Trebizond,

passed anightat Heraclea or Eregri. His eye surveyed the present state, hia
read­

ing collected the antiquities, of the city. (Voyage du Levant, torn. 3. lettre
16.

p. 23—35.) We have a separate history of Heraclea in the fragments of Memnon,

which are preserved by Photius.

I I he wars of Harun al Rashid against the Roman empire, are related by Theo-

phanes, (384, 385. 391.396. 407, 408.) Zonaras, (torn. 3. lib. 15. p. 113.
1*4.)

Cedrenus, (p. 477, 478.) EutycMus, (Anual. torn. 2. p. 407.) Elmacin. (Hist.
Sa­

racen, p. 136. 151,152.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 147.151.) and Abulfrda,

(p. 156. 166—168.)

k The authors from whom I have learned the most of the ancient and modem

state of Crete, are Belon, (Observations, Sec. c. 3—20. Paris, 1555.)
Tournefort,

(Voyage du Levant, torn. 1. Irttrc 2 et 3.) and Meursius.(Crcta,inhis works,
torn.

