CHAP. XLVIII. 153

is lost in a vague constellation of virtues: and the per­

petual strain of panegyric and apology awakens our jea­

lousy,, to question the veracity of the historian and the

merit of the hero. We cannot however refuse her ju­

dicious and important remark, that the disorders of the

times were the misfortune and the glory of Alexius; and

that every calamity which can afflict a declining empire

was accumulated on his reign by the justice of Heaven

and the vices of his predecessors. In the east, the vic­

torious Turks had spread, from Persia to Hellespont,

the reign of the Koran and the crescent: the west was

invaded by the adventurous valour of the Normans; and,

in the moments of peace, the Danube poured forth new

swarms, who had gained, in the science of war, what

they had lost in the ferociousness of manners. The sea

was not less hostile than the land; and while the fron­

tiers were assaulted by an open enemy, the palace was

distracted with secret treason and conspiracy. On a

sudden, the banner of the cross was displayed by the

Latins: Europe was precipitated on Asia; and Constan­

tinople had almost been swept away by this impetuous

deluge. In the tempest, Alexis steered the imperial

vessel with dexterity and courage. At the head of his

armies, he was bold in action, skilful in stratagem, pa­

tient of fatigue, ready to improve his advantages, and

rising from his defeats with inexhaustible vigour. The

discipline of the camp was revived, and a new generation

of men and soldiers was created by the example and the

precepts of their leader. In his intercourse with the

Latins, Alexius was patient and artful: his discerning

eye pervaded the new system of an unknown world;

and I shall hereafter describe the superior policy with

which he balanced the interests and passions of the

champions of the first crusade. In a long reign of

thirty-seven years, he subdued and pardoned the envy

of his equals: the laws of public and private order were

restored: the arts of wealth and science were cultivated:

