468 ROMAN EMPIRE.

Arabian fleet cast anchor, and the troops were disem­

barked near the palace of Hebdomon, seven miles from

the city. During many days, from the dawn of light to

the evening, the line of assault was extended from the

golden gate to the eastern promontory, and the foremost

warriors were impelled by the weight and effort of the

succeeding columns. But the besiegers had formed an

insufficient estimate of the strength and resources of

Constantinople. The solid and lofty walls were guarded

by numbers and discipline: the spirit of the Romans

was rekindled by the last danger of their religion and

empire: the fugitives from the conquered provinces

more successfully renewed the defence of Damascus and

Alexandria; and the Saracens were dismayed by the

strange and prodigious effects of artificial fire. This

firm and effectual resistance diverted their arms to the

more easy attempts of plundering the European and

Asiatic coasts of the Propontis; and, after keeping the

sea from the month of April to that of September, on the

approach of winter they retreated fourscore miles from

the capital, to the isle of Cyzicus, in which they had

established their magazine of spoil and provisions. So

patient was their perseverance, or so languid were their

operations, that they repeated, in the six following sum­

mers, the same attack and retreat, with a gradual abate­

ment of hope and vigour, till the mischances of shipwreck

and disease, of the sword and of fire, compelled them to

relinquish the fruitless enterprise. They might bewail

the loss, or commemorate the martyrdom, of thirty thou­

sand Moslems, who fell in the siege of Constantinople;

and the solemn funeral of Abu Ayub, or Job, excited

the curiosity of the Christians themselves. That vene­

rable Arab, one of the last of the companions of Mahomet,

Baron de Tott, (torn. 3. p. 39— 97.) who was sent to fortify them against the
Hus­

sions. From a principal actor, I should have expected more accurate details;

bathe seems to write for the amusement, rather than the instruction, of his
reader*

Perhaps, on the approach, of the enemy, the minister of Constantino was
occupied,

like that of Mustapha, in finding two Canary birds, who should sing precisely
the

same note.

