80 ROMAN EMPIRE.

with hasty violence the liturgy of Rome and the inqui­

sition of Portugal. He condemned the ancient prac­

tice of circumcision, which health rather than supersti­

tion had first invented in the climate of jEthiopia.y A

new baptism, a new ordination, was inflicted on the

natives; and they trembled with horror when the most

holy of the dead were torn from their graves, when the

most illustrious of the living were excommunicated by

a foreign priest. In the defence of their religion and

liberty, the Abyssinians rose in arms, with desperate

but unsuccessful zeal. Five rebellions were extin­

guished in the blood of the insurgents: two abunas

were slain in battle, whole legions were slaughtered in

the field, or suffocated in their caverns; and neither

merit, nor rank, nor sex, could save from an ignomini­

ous death the enemies of Rome. But the victorious

monarch was finally subdued by the constancy of the

nation, of his mother, of his son, and of his most faith­

ful friends. Segued listened to the voice of pity, of

reason, perhaps of fear; and his edict of liberty of con­

science instantly revealed the tyranny and weakness of

the Jesuits. On the death of his father, Basilides ex­

pelled the Latin patriarch, and restored to the wishes

of the nation the faith and the discipline of Egypt.

Final ex. ^e Monophysite churches resounded with a

puision of song of triumph, that the sheep of ^Ethiopia

its.A.o. were now delivered from the hyaenas of the west;

less, c. and the ga^es 0£ thgj solitary realm were for

ever shut against the arts, the science, and the fanati­

cism of Europe/

J I am aware how tender is the question of circumcision. Yet I will affirm,

1. That the Ethiopians have a physical reason for the circumcision of males,
and

even ef females. (Recherches Philosophiques sur les Americains, torn. 2.) 2.

That it was practised in Ethiopia long before the introduction of Judaism, or

Christianity. (Herodot. lib. t. c. 104. Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 72, 73.)

"Infantes circumcidunt ob consuetudinem non ob Judaismum," says Gregory the

Abyssinian priest, (apud Fabric. Lux Christiana, p. 720.) Yet, in the heat of
dis-

pute, the Portuguese were sometimes branded with the name of uncircumcised.

(La Croze, p. 80. Ludolph. Hist. Comment, lib. 3. c. 1.)

* The three protestant historians, Ludolphus (Hist. Ethiopia, Francofoit,  
1681; Commentarius, 1691; Relatio Nova, &c. 1693, in folio); Geddes (Church

History of ^Ethiopia, London, 1696, in octavo), and La Croze (Hist, du
Chrbrti­

