CHAP. L. 265

tempted to forget his distant country and his unfortunate

master. The historians of the age of Justinian represent

the state of the independent Arabs, who were divided by

interest or aifection in the long quarrel of the east; the

tribe of Gassan was allowed to encamp on the Syrian ter­

ritory; the princes of Hira were permitted to form a

city about forty miles to the southward of the ruins of

Babylon. Their service in the field was speedy and vi­

gorous; but their friendship was venal, their faith in­

constant, their enmity capricious; it was an easier task

to excite than to disarm these roving barbarians; and,

in the familiar intercourse of war, they learned to see,

and to despise, the splendid weakness both of Rome and

of Persia. From Mecca to the Euphrates, the Arabian

tribes' were confounded by the Greeks and Latins, under

the general appellation of SARACENS/ a name which

every Christian mouth has been taught to pronounce

with terror and abhorrence.

Their do- The slaves of domestic tyranny may vainly

domaid*8" exult in their national independence; but the

character. j\rab is personally free; and he enjoys, in some

degree, the benefits of society, without forfeiting the

prerogatives of nature. In every tribe, superstition, or

gratitude, or fortune, has exalted a particular family

above the heads of their equals. The dignities of sheich

and emir invariably descend in this chosen race; but

the order of succession is loose and precarious; and

the most worthy or aged of the noble kinsmen are

'The Sajaxwix* ifvXs, ffjftzSt; riuna »ai TO orMwiov auran spniuwo^a, xai a

are described by Menander, (Excerpt Legation, p. 149.) Procopius,(de Bell.
Persic.

lib. 1. c. 17. 19. lib. 2. c. 10.) and, in the most lively colours, by
Ammianus Mar

cellinus, (lib. 14. c. 4.) who had spoken of them as early as the reign of
Marcus.

* The name which, used by Ptolemy and Pliny in a more confined, by Ammi­  
anus and Procopius in a larger, sense, has been derived, ridiculously, from
Sarah,

the wife of Abraham, obscurely from the village of Saraka(fura$afSariuwt;
Stephan.

de I ' r I ,il in s ) , more plausibly from the Arabic words, which signify a
thieviih charac­

ter, or arimtal situation. (Holtinger, Hist,|Oriental. lib. I.e. 1. p. 7, 8.
Pocock, Spe­

cimen, p. 33. 35. Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 567.) Yet the last and
most

popular of these etymologies, is refuted by Ptolemy, (Arabia, p. 2. 18. in
Hudson,

torn. 4.) who expressly remarks the western and southern position of the
Saracens,

then an obscure tribe on the borders of Egypt. The appellation cannot
therefore

allude to any national character; and, since it was imposed by strangers, it
must

be found, not in the Arabic, but in a foreign language.

