CHAP. XLIX. 189

their real and pretended sufferings, nor how many lost

their lives or limbs, their eyes or their beards, by the cru­

elty of the emperor. From the chastisement of indivi­

duals, he proceeded to the abolition of the order; and,

as it was wealthy and useless, his resentment might be

stimulated by avarice and justified by patriotism. The

formidable name and mission of the Dragon," his visitor-

general, excited the terror and abhorrence of the black

nation: the religious communities were dissolved, the

buildings were converted into magazines, or barracks;

the lands, moveables, and cattle, were confiscated; and

our modern precedents will support the charge, that

much wanton or malicious havoc was exercised against

the relics, and even the books, of the monasteries. With

the habit and profession of monks, the public and private

worship of images was rigorously proscribed; and it

should seem, that a solemn abjuration of idolatry was

exacted from the subjects, or at least from the clergy, of

the eastern empire.'1

state of The patient east abjured, with reluctance, her

3' sacred images: they were fondly cherished, and

vigorously defended, by the independent zeal of the

Italians. In ecclesiastical rank and jurisdiction; the

patriarch of Constantinople and the pope of Rome were

nearly equal. But the Greek prelate was a domestic

slave under the eye of his master, at whose nod he

alternately passed from the convent to the throne, and

from the throne to the convent. A distant and dan­

gerous station amidst the barbarians of the west, ex­

cited the spirit and freedom of the Latin bishops.

Their popular election endeared them to the Romans;

the public and private indigence was relieved by their

* In the narrative of this persecution from Theophanes and Cedrenns, Spanheim  
(p. J35—238.) is happy to compare the Draco of Leo with the dragoons (
Dracouei)

of Louis XIV. and highly solaces himself with this controversial pun.

6 nfcypaftftct ya.f l^iorf/tx^fi Kara, irarav f£tpxiav T11V ^fl<° TTIf Jt"f0?
*mev, irarrac

irojfa^ai lui a/auia nu aBi-nta-ai rm it^'.a-iunirn TaV mitral luuim.
(Damascen. Op.

torn. 1. p. 615.) This oath and subscription I do not remember to have seen in
any

modern compilation.

