04 ROMAN EMPIRE.

4 colleague and a guardian, and he yielded with secret

A.D. ess, reluctance to the partition of the empire. The

f senate was summoned to the palace to ratify or

attest the association of Heracleonas, the son of Martina:

the imposition of the diadem was consecrated by the

prayer and blessing of the patriarch; the senators and

patricians adored the majesty of the great emperor' and

the partners of his reign; and, as soon as the doors were

thrown open, they were hailed by the tumultuary but

A.D. 639, important voice of the soldiers. After an inter-

January. yal of £ve months, the pompous ceremonies,

which formed the essence of the Byzantine state, were

celebrated in the cathedral and the hippodrome: the

concord of the royal brothers was affectedly displayed

by the younger leaning on the arm of the elder; and

the name of Martina was mingled in the reluctant or

A.D.641. venal acclamations of the people. Heraclius

Feb.ii. survive(J this association about two years; his

last testimony declared his two sons the equal heirs of

the eastern empire, and commanded them to honour

his widow Martina as their mother and their sove­

reign.

Constan- When Martina first appealed on the throng

jLplftii, with the name and attributed of royalty, she was

F*i*us*y. checked by a firm, though respectful, opposition;

and the dying embers of freedonl Were kindled by the

breath of superstitious prejudice.— We reverence (ex­

claimed the voice of a citizen), we reverence the mother

of our princes; but to those princes alone our obedience is

due, and Constantine, the elder emperor, is of an age to

sustain, in his own hands, the weight of the sceptr'e'. Your

sex is excluded by nature from the toils of government.

Row could you combat, how could you answer, the bar-

Adrians, who, with hostile or friendly intentions, may

approach the royal city? May heaven avert from the

Roman republic this national disgrace, which would pro­

voke the patience of tne slaves of Persia. Martina de­

