440 ROMAN EMPIRE.

V. In the progress of conquest from the north

Firsttemp-and south, the Goths and the Saracens encoun-

of tered each other on the confines of Europe and

0bg' Africa. In the opinion of the latter, the differ­

ence of religion is a reasonable ground of enmity,

and warfare.0 As early as the time of Othman,d their

piratical squadrons had ravaged the coasts of Andalusia;'

nor had they forgotten the relief of Carthage by the Go­

thic succours. In that age, as well as in the present,

the kings of Spain were possessed of the fortress of

Ceuta; one of the columns of Hercules, which is divided

by a narrow strait from the opposite pillar or point of

Europe. A small portion of Mauritania was still want­

ing to the African conquest; but Musa, in the pride of

victory, was repulsed from the walls of Ceuta, by the

vigilance and courage of count Julian, the general of

the Goths. From his disappointment and perplexity,

Musa was relieved by an unexpected message of the

Christian chief, who offered his place, his person, and

his sword, to the successors of Mahomet, and solicited

the disgraceful honour of introducing their arms into

the heart of Spain/ If we inquire into the cause of his

he could acquire of Greek or Roman learning. Many of his gross mistakes might

be detected in the first period of the Mahometan history.

c In a conference with a prince of the Greeks, Amrou observed that their reli­

gion was different; upon which score it was lawful for brothers to quarrel.
Ock-

ley's History of the Saracens, vol. 1. p. 328.

'' Abulfeda, Annal. Moslern. j,. 71). VMS. Reiske.

'The name of Andalusia is applied by the Arabs not only to the modern pro­

vince, but to the whole peninsula of Spain. (Geograph. Nub. p. 151.
D'Herbelot,

Bibliot. Orient, p. 114, 115.) The etymology has been most improbably deduced

from Vandalusia, country of the Vandals. (D'Anville, Etats de 1'Europe, p.
1-ki,

147, &c.) But the Handalusia of Casiri, which signifies in Arabic, the region
of

the evening, of the west, in a word, the Hesperia of the Greeks, is perfectly
appo­

site. (Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 2. p. 327, &c.)

'1'he fall and resurrection of the Gothic monarchy are related by Mariana,
(torn.

1. p. 238—260. lib. 6. c. 19—26. lib. 7. c. 1, 2.) That historian has infoaed
into

his noble work (Historia e de Rebus Hispanice, libri 30. Haga e Comitum 1733,
in

four volumes in folio, with the Continuation of Miniana) the style and spirit
of a

Roman classic; and after the twelfth century, his knowledge and judgment may

be safely trusted. But the Jesuit is not exempt from the prejudices of his
order;

he adopts and adorns, like his rival Buchanan, the most absurd of the national

legends: he is too careless of criticism and chronology, and supplies, from a
lively

fancy, thn chasms of historical evidence. These chasms are large and frequent;

Roderic, archbishop of Toledo, the father of the Spanish history, lived five
hundred

years after the conquest of the Arabs; and the more early accounts are
comprised

in some meagre lines of the blind chronicles of Isidore of Badajoz (Pacensis),
and

of Alphonso III. king of Leon, which I have seen only in the Anna!.» of Pagi.

