CHAP. XLVIII. Jli)

tent with the title of mother of Theophilus, his son and

successor.

The character of Theophilus is a rare exam-

.Di P^ in which religious zeal has allowed, and

-, '-':„•,. * ™

perhaps magnified, the virtues of a heretic, and

a persecutor. His valour was.often felt by the ene­

mies, and his justice by the Subjects, of the monarchy;

but the valour of Theophilus was rash and fruitless,

and his justice arbitrary and cruel. He displayed the

banner of the cross against the Saracens; but his five

expeditions were concluded by a signal overthrow;

Amorium, the native city of his ancestors, was levelled

with the ground, and from his military toils, he derived

only the surname of the Unfortunate. The wisdom of

a sovereign is comprised in the institution of laws and

the choice of magistrates, and while he seems without

action, his civil government revolves round his centre

with the silence and order of the planetary system. But

the justice of Theophilus was fashioned on the model

of the oriental despots, who, in personal and irregular

acts of authority, consult the reason or passion of the

moment, without measuring the sentence by the law, or

the penalty by the offence. A poor woman threw her­

self at the emperor's feet to complain of a powerful

neighbour, the brother of the empress, who had raised

his palace-wall to such an inconvenient height, that her

humble dwelling was excluded from light and air! On

the proof of the fact, instead of granting, like an ordi­

nary judge, sufficient or ample damages to the plaintiff,

the sovereign adjudged to her use and benefit the pa­

lace and the ground. Nor was Theophilus content with

this extravagant satisfaction; his zeal converted a civil

trespass into a criminal act; and the unfortunate patri­

cian was stripped and scourged in the public place of

Constantinople. For some venial offences, some defect

of equity or vigilance, the principal ministers, a prefect,

a quaestor, a captain of the guards, were banished, or

mutilated, or scalded with boiling pitch, or burnt alive

