CHAP. XLIX. 211)

queror himself conformed, with the temper of a states­

man, to the various practice of France and Italy. In his

four pilgrimages or visits to the Vatican, he embraced

the popes in the communion of friendship and piety;

knelt before the tomb, and consequently before the

image of the apostle; and joined, without scruple, in all

the prayers and processions of the Roman liturgy.

Would prudence or gratitude allow the pontiffs to re­

nounce their benefactor? Had they a right to alienate

his gift of the exarchate? Had they power to abolish

his government of Rome? The title of patrician was

below the merit and greatness of Charlemagne; and it

was only by reviving the western empire that they could

pay their obligations or secure their establishment. By

this decisive measure they would finally eradicate the

claims of the Greeks from the debasement of a provin­

cial town: the majesty of Rome would be restored: the

Latin Christians would be united under a supreme head,

in their ancient metropolis; and the conquerors of the

west would receive their crown from the successors of

St. Peter. The Roman church would acquire a zealous

and respectable advocate; and, under the shadow of the

Carlovingian power, the bishop might exercise, with

honour and safety, the government of the city.*

Coronation Before the ruin of Paganism in Rome, the

of Charie- competition for a wealthy bishopric had often

matin'.' as

emperor of been productive of tumult and bloodshed. The

omo 'mi 11 ii*

of the west, people was less numerous, but the times were

A.D. BOO. more savage, the prize more important, and the

chair of St. Peter was fiercely disputed by the

leading ecclesiastics who aspired to the rank of sovereign.

The reign of Hadrian I." surpasses the measure of past

1 Fontanini considers the emperors as no more than the advocates of the
church.

(advocatus et defcnsor S. R. £. See Ducange, Gloss, l.ai . torn. 1. p. £97.)
His an­

tagonist Muratori reduces the popes to be no more than the exarchs of the
emperor.

In the more equitable view of Mosheim, (Institut. Hist. Eccles. p. 264, 265.)
they

held Rome under the empire as the most honourable species of fief or benefice
—

premantur nocte caliginosa!

• His merits and hopes are summed up in an epitaph of thirty.eight verses, of

which Charlemagne declares himself the author. (Concil. torn. 8. p. 520.)

