CHAP. XLIX. 211

ancient claim, which, in a more prosperous age, they

have revived and realized.

Forgery of Fraud is the resource of weakness and cun-

timofCon- nnig; aQd the strong, though ignorant barba-

•tantine. riail} was Often entangled in the net of sacerdotal

policy. The Vatican and Lateran were an arsenal and

manufacture, which, according to the occasion, have

produced or concealed a various collection of false or

genuine, of corrupt or suspicious acts, as they tended

to promote the interest of the Roman church. Before

the end of the eighth century, some apostolical scribe,

perhaps the notorious Isidore, composed the decretals,

and the donation of Constantine, the two magic pillars

of the spiritual and temporal monarchy of the popes.

This memorable donation was introduced to the world

by an epistle of Hadrian I., who exhorts Charlemagne

to imitate the liberality, and revive the name, of the

great Constantine/ According to the legend, the first

of the Christian emperors was healed of the leprosy,

and purified in the waters of baptism, by St. Silvester,

the Roman bishop; and never was physician more

gloriously recompensed. His royal proselyte withdrew

from his seat and patrimony of St. Peter; declared his

resolution of founding a new capital in the east; and

resigned to the popes the free and perpetual sovereignty

of Rome, Italy, and the provinces of the west.' This

fiction Was productive of the most beneficial effects.

The Greek princes were convicted of the guilt of usur­

pation; and the revolt of Gregory was the claim of his

lawful inheritance. The popes were delivered from

i Piissimo Constantino magno, per cjus largitatem S. R. Ecclesia elevata et
ex-

oltata est, et potestatem in his Hesperiae partibus largiri dignatus est ....
Qiiia

ecce novus Constantinus his temporibus, &c. (Codex. Carolin. epist. 49. in
torn. 3.

pan 2. p. 195.) Pagi (Critica, A. D. 324, no. 16.) ascribes them to an
impostor of

the eighth centuiy, who borrowed the name of St. Isidore: his humble title of
Pec-

eator was ignorantly, but aptly, tamed into liercator: his merchandise was
indeed

profitable, and a few sheets of paper were sold for much wealth and power.

* Fabricius (Bibliot. GTOC. torn. 6. p. 4—7.) has enumerated the several editions  
of this Act, in Greek and Latin. The copy which Lanrcntius Valla recites and
re­

futes, appears to be taken either from the spurious Acts of St. Silvester or
from Gra-

ti an's Decree, to which, according to him and others, it has been
surreptitiously

tacked.

p 2

