490 ROMAN EMPIRE.

ragius) that they are the elect of God, his best and

most useful servants, whose lives are devoted to the im­

provement of their rational faculties. The mean am­

bition of the Chinese or the Turks may glory in the in­

dustry of their hands, or (he indulgence of their brutal

appetites. Yet these dexterous artists must view, with

hopeless emulation, the hexagons and pyramids of the

cells of a bee-hive / these fortitudinous heroes are awed by

the superior fierceness of the lions and tigers; and in

their amorous enjoyments, they are much inferior to the

vigour of the grossest and most sordid quadrupeds. The

teachers of wisdom are the true luminaries and legislators

of a world, which, without their aid, would again sink in

ignorance and barbarism.* The zeal and curiosity of

Almamon were imitated by succeeding princes of the line

of Abbas: their rivals, the Fatimites of Africa and the

Ommiades of Spain, were the patrons of the learned, as

well as the commanders of the faithful: the same royal

prerogative was claimed by their independent emirs of

the provinces; and their emulation diffused the taste and

the rewards of science from Samarcand and Bochara to

Fez and Cordova. The vizier of a sultan consecrated

a sum of two hundred thousand pieces of gold to the

foundation of a college at Bagdad, which he endowed

with an annual revenue of fifteen thousand dinars. The

fruits of instruction were communicated, perhaps at dif­

ferent times, to six thousand disciples of every degree,

from the son of the noble to that of the mechanic: a

1 See their curious architecture in Reaumar. (Hist, dcs Insects, torn. 5. Ale-

moire 8.) These hexagons are closed by a pyramid; the angles of the three
sides

of a similar pyramid, such as would accomplish the given end with the smallest

quantity possible of materials, were determined by a mathematician, at one
hun­

dred and nine degrees iweuty-six minutes for the larger, seventy degrees
thirty-four

minutes for the smaller. The actusl measure is one hundred and nine degrees

twenty-eight minutes, seventy degrees thirty-two minutes. Yet this perfect
har­

mony raises the work at the expense of the artist; the bees are not masters of

transcendant geometry.

f Saed Abu Ahmed, cadhi of Toledo, who died A. II. 462, A. D. 1069, has fur­

nished Abulpharagius (Dynast, p. 160,) with this curious passage, as well as
with

the text of Pocock e Specimen Historis Araburn. A number of literary anecdotes

of philosophers, physicians, &c. who have flourished under each caliph, form
the

principal merit of the dynasties of Abulpharagius.

