CHAP. L. 305

loured with the pretence of religion; in the age of Job,

the crime of impiety was punished by the Arabian ma­

gistrate;' and Mahomet was guilty of deserting and de­

nying the national deities. But so loose was the policy

of Mecca, that the leaders of the Koreish, instead of ac­

cusing a criminal, were compelled to employ the mea­

sures of persuasion or violence. They repeatedly ad­

dressed Abu Taleb in the style of reproach and menace.

Thy nephew reviles our religion; he accuses our msefore­

fathers of ignorance and folly; silence him quickly, lest

he kindle tumult and discord in the city. If he persevere,

we shall draw our swords against him and his adherents,

andthou wilt be responsible for the blood of thy fellow-ci­

tizens. The weight and moderation of Abu Taleb eluded

the violence of religious faction; the most helpless or

timid of the disciples retired to Ethiopia, and the pro­

phet withdrew himself to various places of strength in

the town and country. As he was still supported by his

family, the rest of the tribe of Koreish engaged them­

selves to renounce all intercourse with the children of

Hashem, neither to buy nor sell, neither to marry nor to

give in marriage, but to pursue them with implacable

enmity, till they should deliver the person of Mahomet

to the justice of the gods. The decree was suspended

in the Caaba before the eyes of the nation; the messen­

gers of the Koreish pursued the Mussulman exiles in the

heart of Africa: they besieged the prophet and his most

faithful followers, intercepted their water, and inflamed

their mutual animosity by the retaliation of injuries and

insults. A doubtful truce restored the appearances of

concord, till the death of Abu Taleb abandoned Maho­

met to the power of his enemies, at the mdment when he

was deprived of his domestic comforts by the loss of his

faithful and generous Cadijah. Abu Sophian, the chief

• In the time of Job, the crime of impiety was punished by the Arabian magi-

gietrate. (c. 13. v. 26. 28.) I blush for a respectable prelate, (de Poesi
Hebrae-

cmm, p. 650, 651. edit. Michaelis; and letter of a late professor in the
university

of Oxford, p. 15—53.) who lustifies and applauds this patriarchal inquisition.

VOL. VI. X

