CHAP. LI. 41$>

sult, and the obstinacy of the resistance, provoked him

to swear, that if a third time he drove the infidels into

the sea, he would render Alexandria as accessible on all

sides as the house of a prostitute. Faithful to his

promise, he dismantled several parts of the walls and

towers, but the people were spared in the chastisement

of the city, and the mosch of Mercy was erected on the

spot where the victorious general had stopped the fury

of his troops.

.. r I should deceive the expectation of the reader,

andnan if I passed in silence the fate of the Alexandrian

ra library, as it is described by the learned Abul-

pharagius. The spirit of Amrou was more curious and

liberal than that of his brethren, and in his leisure hours,

the Arabian chief was pleased with the conversation of

John, the last disciple of Ammonius, and who derived

the surname of Philoponus from his laborious studies of

grammar and philosophy." Emboldened by this familiar

intercourse, Philoponus presumed to solicit a gift, ines­

timable in his opinion, contemptible in that of the bar­

barians; the royal library, which alone among the spoils

of Alexandria, had not been appropriated by the visit

and the seal of the conqueror. Amrou was inclined to

gratify the wish of the grammarian, but his rigid inte­

grity refused to alienate the minutest object without the

consent of the caliph; and the well-known answer of

Omar was inspired by the ignorance of a fanatic. If

these writings of the Greeks agree with the book of God,

they are useless and need not be preserved: if they dis­

agree, they are pernicious, and ought to be destroyed. The

sentence was executed with blind obedience: the vo­

lumes of paper or parchment were distributed to the four

1 Many treatises of this lover of labour (ifiX*BroMf) are still extant; but
for readers

of the present age, the printed and unpublished are nearly in the same
predicament.

Moses and Aristotle are the chief objects of his verbose commentaries, one of
which

is dated as early as May 10, A. D. 617. (Fabric. Bibliot. Grsc. torn. 9. p.
458—

468.) A modem (John Le Clerc), who sometimes assumes the same name, was

equal to old Philoponus in diligence, and far superior in good sense and real

knowledge.

2E2

