412 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the reign of the Ptolemies and Caesars, the seat of govern­

ment was removed to the sea-coast; the ancient capital

was eclipsed by the arts and opulence of Alexandria;

the palaces, and at length the temples, were reduced to

a desolate and ruinous condition: yet in the age of Au­

gustus, and even in that of Constantine, Memphis was

still numbered among the greatest and most populous of

the provincial cities.' The banks of the Nile, in this

place of the breadth of three thousand feet, were united

by two bridges of sixty and of thirty boats, connected in

the middle stream by the small island of Rouda, which

was covered with gardens and habitations.1* The eastern

extremity of the bridge was terminated by the town of

Babylon and the camp of a Roman legion, which pro­

tected the passage of the river and the second capital of

Egypt. This important fortress, which might fairly be

described as part of Memphis or Misrah, was invested

by the arms of the lieutenant of Omar: a reinforcement

of four thousand Saracens soon arrived in his camp; and

the military engines, which battered the walls, may be

imputed to the art and labour of his Syrian allies. Yet

the siege was protracted to seven months; and the rash

invaders were encompassed and threatened by the inun­

dation of the Nile.1 Their last assault was bold and

successful: they passed the ditch, which had been for­

tified with iron spikes, applied their scaling-ladders, en­

tered the fortress with the shout of God is victorious!

* 'Strabo, an accurate and attentive spectator, observes of Heliopolis ; nut fui tar  
urn irmptput n «Xif; (Geograph. lib. 17. p. 1158.) but of Memphis he declares,

ureXi; !* fori /ufyaXn TI xai lvayogo;, JIUTIJH fttr AXlfarJptiar; (p. 1161.)
he notices,

however, the mixture of inhabitants and the ruins of the palaces. In the
proper

Egypt, Ammianus enumerates Memphis among the foul cities, maximis urbibus

quibus provincial nitet; (22. 16.) and the name of Memphis appears with
distinc­

tion in the Roman itinerary and episcopal lists.

k These rare and curious facts, (the breadth two thousand nine hundred and

forty-six feet) and the bridge of the Nile, are only to be found in the Danish
tra­

veller and the Nubian geographer, (p. 98.)

1 From the month of April, the NUe begins imperceptibly to rise; the swell be­

comes strong and visible m the moon after the summer solstice, (Plin. Hist.
Nat.

5.10.) and is ususlly proclaimed at Cairo on St. Peter's day. (Jane 29.) A
register

of thirty successive years marks the greatest height of the waters between
July *5

and Augnst 18. (Maillet, Description de I' Egypte, lettre 11. p. 67, &c.
Pocock'i

Description of the East, vol. 1. p. 200. Shaw s Travels, p. 383.)

