406 ROMAN EMPIRE.

well, we shall meet again among the groves and fountains

which God has provided for his elect. The faithful cap­

tives might exercise a passive and more arduous resolu­

tion; and a cousin of Mahomet is celebrated for refusing,

after an abstinence of three days, the wine and pork, the

only nourishment that was allowed by the malice of the

infidels. The frailty of some weaker brethren exaspe­

rated the implacable spirit of fanaticism: and the father

of Amer deplored, in pathetic strains, the apostacy and

damnation of a son, who had renounced the promises

of God, and the intercession of the prophet, to occupy,

with the priests and deacons, the lowest mansions of hell.

The more fortunate Arabs who survived the war, and

persevered in the faith, were restrained by their abste­

mious leader from the abuse of prosperity. After a re­

freshment of three days, Abu Obeidah withdrew his

troops from the pernicious contagion of the luxury of

Antioch, and assured the caliph that their religion and

virtue could only be preserved by the hard discipline of

poverty and labour. But the virtue of Omar, however

rigorous to himself, was kind and liberal to his brethren.

After a just tribute of praise and thanksgiving, he

dropped a tear of compassion; and, sitting down on the

ground, wrote an answer, in which he mildly censured

the severity of his lieutenant. God (said the successor

of the prophet) has not forbidden the use of the good

things of this world to faithful men, and such as have

performed good works. Therefore you ought to have given

them leave to rest themselves, and partake freely of those

good th ings wh ich the country affordeth. If any of the Sa­

racens have no family in Arabia, they may marry in Syria;

and whosoever of them wants any female slaves, he may

purchase as many as he hath occasion for. The conquer­

ors prepared to use, or to abuse, this gracious permission;

but the year of their triumph was marked by a mortality

of men and cattle; and twenty-five thousand Saracens

were snatched away from the possession of Syria. The

