CHAP. XLIX. 245

and the effects of their own intemperance were often

imputed to the treachery and malice of the Italians,

who rejoiced at least in the calamities of the barbarians.

This irregular tyranny might contend on equal terms

with the petty tyrants of Italy; nor can the people, or

the reader, be much interested in the event of the

quarrel. But in the eleventh and twelfth centuries,

the Lombards rekindled the flame of industry and

freedom; and the generous example was at length imi­

tated by the republics of Tuscany. In the Italian

cities a municipal government had never been totally

abolished; and their first privileges were granted by

the favour and policy of the emperors, who were desir­

ous of erecting a plebeian barrier against the indepen­

dence of the nobles. But their rapid progress, the

daily extension of their power and pretensions, were

founded on the numbers and spirit of these rising com­

munities/ Each city filled the measure of her diocess

or district: the jurisdiction of the counts and bishops,

of the marquises and counts, was banished from the

land; and the proudest nobles were persuaded or com­

pelled to desert their solitary castles, and to embrace

the more honourable character of freemen and magi­

strates. The legislative authority was inherent in the

general assembly; but the executive powers were in­

trusted to three consuls, annually chosen from the three

orders of captains, valvassors,1 and commons, into which

the republic was divided. Under the protection of

equal law, the labours of commerce and agriculture

were gradually revived; but the martial spirit of the

Lombards was nourished by the presence of danger;

torn. 3. p. 423, 424.) The same author observes that the whole Saxon line was

extinguished in Italy, (torn. 1. p. 440.)

* Otbo, bishop of Frinsingen, has left an important passage on the Italian ci­  
ties; (lib. 2. c. 13. in Script. Ital. torn. 6. p. 707—710.) and the rise,
progress,

and government, of these republics are perfectly illustrated by Muratori,
(Anti-

cniitat. Ital. Medii ^Evi, torn. 4. dissert. 45—52. p. 1—675. Annal. torn.
8—10.)

'For these titles, see Selden, (Titles of Honour, vol. 3. part 1. p. 4BB.) Du-

cange, (Gloss. Latin, torn. 2. p. 140. torn. 6. p. 776.) and St. Marc. (Abreg6

Chroaologiflue, torn. t. p. 719.)

