402 ROMAN EMPIRE.

dels to fall upon you on all sides. Remain before Alepp o

till God shall determine the event, and forage with your

horse round the adjacent country. The exhortation of

the commander of the faithful was fortified by a supply

of volunteers from all the tribes of Arabia, who arrived

in the camp on horses or camels. Among these was

Dames, of a servile birth, but of gigantic size and in­

trepid resolution. The forty-seventh day of his service

he proposed, with only thirty men, to make an attempt

on the castle. The experience and testimony of Caled

recommended his offer; and Abu Obeidah admonished

his brethren not to despise the baser origin of Dames,

since he himself, could he relinquish the public care,

would cheerfully serve under the banner of the slave.

His design was covered by the appearance of a retreat;

and the camp of the Saracens was pitched about a league

from Aleppo. The thirty adventurers lay in ambush at

the foot of the hill; and Dames at length succeeded in

his inquiries, though he was provoked by the ignorance

of his Greek captives. God curse these dogs (said the

illiterate Arab), what a strange barbarous language they

speak. At the darkest hour of the night he scaled the

most accessible height, which he had diligently surveyed,

a place where the stones were less entire, or the slope

less perpendicular, or the guard less vigilant. Seven of

the stoutest Saracens mounted on each other's shoulders,

and the weight of the column was sustained on the broad

and sinewy back of the gigantic slave. The foremost

in this painful ascent could grasp and climb the lowest

part of the battlements; they silently stabbed and cast

down the sentinels; and the thirty brethren, repeating

a pious ejaculation, O apostle of God, help and deliver us!

were successively drawn up by the long folds of their

turbans. With bold and cautious footsteps, Dames ex­

plored the palace of the governor, who celebrated, in

riotous merriment, the festival of his deliverance. From

thence returning to his companions, he assaulted on the

