164 ROMAN EMPIRE.

he was honourably conducted to Kiow, the residence of

the great duke: the subtle Greek soon obtained the

esteem and confidence of leroslaus: his character could

assume the manners of every climate; and the barba­

rians applauded his strength and courage in the chase of

the elks and bears of the forest. In this northern region

he deserved the forgiveness of Manuel, who solicited the

Russian prince to join his arms in the invasion of Hun­

gary. The influence of Andronicus achieved this im­

portant service; his private treaty was signed with a pro­

mise of fidelity on one side, and of oblivion on the other;

and he marched, at the head of the Russian cavalry, from

the Borysthenes to the Danube. In his resentment Ma­

nuel had ever sympathized with the martial and dissolute

character of his cousin; and his free pardon was sealed

in the assault of Zemlin, in which he was second, and

second only, to the valour of the emperor.

No sooner was the exile restored to freedom and his

country, than his ambition revived, at first to his own,

and at length to the public, misfortune. A daughter

of Manuel was a feeble bar to the succession of the

more deserving males of the Comnenian blood: her

future marriage with the prince of Hungary was re­

pugnant to the hopes or prejudices of the princes and

nobles. But when an oath of allegiance was required

to the presumptive heir, Andronicus alone asserted the

honour of the Roman name, declined the unlawful en­

gagement, and boldly protested against the adoption of

a stranger. His patriotism was offensive to the empe­

ror; but he spoke the sentiments of the people, and

was removed from the royal presence by an honourable

banishment, a second command of the Cilician frontier,

with the absolute disposal of the revenues of Cyprus.

In this station, the Armenians again exercised his cou­

rage, and exposed his negligence; and the same rebel,

who baffled all his operations, was unhorsed and almost

slain by the vigour of his lance. But Andronicus soon.

