128 ROMAN EMPIRE.

served that rare and salutary moderation, which pursues

each virtue, at an equal distance between the opposite

vices. His military service had been confined to the

palace; nor was the emperor endowed with the spirit

or the talents of a warrior. Yet under his reign the

Roman arms were again formidable to the barbarians.

As soon as he had formed a new army by discipline and

exercise, he appeared in person on the banks of the Eu足

phrates, curbed the pride of the Saracens, and suppressed

the dangerous though just revolt of the Manichaeans.

His indignation against a rebel who had long eluded his

pursuit, provoked him to wish and to pray, that, by the

grace of God, he might drive three arrows into the head

of Chrysochir. That odious head, which had been ob足

tained by treason rather than by valour, was suspended

from a tree, and thrice exposed to the dexterity of the

imperial archer: a base revenge against the dead, more

worthy of the times, than of the character of Basil. But

his principal merit was^in the civil administration of the

finances and of the laws. To replenish an exhausted

treasury, it was proposed to resume the lavish and ill-

placed gifts of his predecessor: his prudence abated one

moiety of the restitution; and a sum of 1,200.000/.

was instantly procured to answer the most pressing de足

mands, and to allow some space for the mature opera足

tions of economy. Among the various schemes for the

improvement of the revenue, a new mode was suggested,

of capitation, or tribute, which would have too much

depended on the arbitrary discretion of the assessors.

A sufficient list of honest and able agents was instantly

produced by.the minister; but on the more.careful

scrutiny of Basil himself, only two could be found, who

might be safely intrusted with such dangerous powers;

and they justified his esteem by declining his confidence.

But the serious and successful diligence of the emperor

established by degrees an equitable balance of property

and payment, of receipt and expenditure; a peculiar

