400 ROMAN EMPIRE.

a loud voice,—God is victorious. O Lord, give us an

an easy conquest! and pitching his tent of coarse hair,

calmly seated himself on the ground. After signing the

capitulation, he entered the city without fear or precau­

tion; and courteously discoursed with the patriarch

concerning its religious antiquities."1 Sophronius bowed

before his new master, and secretly muttered, in the

words of Daniel,—The abomination of desolation is in the

holy place." At the hour of prayer they stood together

in the church of the resurrection; but the caliph refused

to perform his devotions, and contented himself with

praying on the steps of the church of Constantine. To

the patriarch he disclosed his prudent and honourable

motive. Had I yielded (said Omar) to your request, the

Moslems of a future age would have infringed the treaty,

under colour of imitating my example. By his command

the ground of the temple of Solornon was prepared for

the foundation of a mosch;0 and, during a residence of

ten days, he regulated the present and future state of

his Syrian conquests. Medina might be jealous, lest

the caliph should be detained by the sanctity of Jeru­

salem or the beauty of Damascus; her apprehensions

were dispelled by his prompt and voluntary return to the

tomb of the apostle ,p

'" The Arabs boast of an old prophecy preserved at Jerusalem, and describing

the name, the religion, and the person of Omar, the future conqueror. By such

arts the Jews are said to have soothed the pride of their foreign masters,
Cyrus

and Alexander. (Joseph. Ant. Jud. lib. 11. c. 1.8. p. 547. 679—58*.)

"To fSSitiUffta TH; tpifturtiac TO pn8iv Jin A««X TOU irlo^nrou IOTMC n tn»
a.yt*.

Theophan. Chronograph, p. 'Jill. This prediction, which had already served for

Antiochus and the Romans, was again refitted for the present occasion, by the

economy of Sophronius, one of the deepest theologians of the Monothelite con­

troversy.

0 According to the accurate eurvey of d'Anville, (Dissertation tax 1'ancienne

Jerusalem, p. 42—54.) the mosch of Omar, enlarged and embellished by succeed­

ing caliphs, covered tin' ground of the ancient temple (waXaioT •no fitya\w mm

iWtJor, says Pbocas), a length of two hundred and fifteen, :i breadth of one
hundred

and seventy-two, toises. The Nubian geographer declares, that this magnifi­

cent structure was second only in size and beauty to the great mosch of
Cordova,

(p. 113.) whose present state Mr. Swinburne has so elegantly represented.
(Tra­

vels into Spain, p. 396—302.)

i' Of the many Arabic tarikhs or chronicles of Jerusalem, (d'Herbelot, p.
867.)

Qckley found one among the Pocock MSS.of Oxford,(vol, 1. p. 257.) which he hu

used to supply the defective narrative of Al Wakidi.

