CHAP. XLVII. 85

patience and dexterity of forty years at length obtained

a more favourable audience, and two emperors of Abys­

sinia were persuaded that Rome could ensure the tem­

poral and everlasting happiness of her votaries. The

first of these royal converts lost his crown and his life;

and the rebel army was sanctified by the abuna, who

hurled an anathema at the apostate, and absolved his

subjects from their oath of fidelity. The fate of Za-

denghel was revenged by the courage and fortune of

Susneus, who ascended the throne under the name of

Segued, and more vigorously prosecuted the pious en­

terprise of his kinsman. After the amusement of some

unequal combats between the Jesuits and his illiterate

priests, the emperor declared himself a proselyte to the

synod of Chalcedon, presuming that his clergy and

people would embrace without delay the religion of

their prince. The liberty of choice was succeeded by

a law, which imposed, under pain of death, the belief

of the two natures of Christ: the Abyssinians were en­

joined to work and to play on the sabbath; and Se­

gued, in the face of Europe and Africa, renounced his

connexion with the Alexandrian church. A Jesuit,

._ Alphonso Mendez, the Catholic patriarch of

•ion of ./Ethiopia, accepted in the name of Urban VIII.

IOT.TJD. the homage and abjuration of his penitent. /

16t6' confess (said the emperor on his kness), / con­

fess that the pope is the vicar of Christ, the successor of

St. Peter, and the sovereign of the world. To him I

swear true obedience, and at his feet I offer my person

and kingdom. A similar oath was repeated by his son,

his brother, the clergy, the nobles, and even the ladies

of the court: the Latin patriarch was invested with ho­

nours and wealth; and his missionaries erected their

churches or citadels in the most convenient stations of

the empire. The Jesuits themselves declare the fatal

indiscretion of their chief, who forgot the mildness oi

the gospel and the policy of his order, to introduce

