12 ROMAN EMPIRE.

revered Mary as the spiritual, rather than as the carnal,

mother of Christ, whose body either came from heaven,

impassible and incorruptible, or was absorbed, and, as

it were, transformed, into the essence of the Deity.

The system of Apollinaris was strenuously encountered

by the Asiatics and Syrian divines, whose schools are

honoured by the names of Basil, Gregory, and Chrysos-

tom, and tainted by those of Diodorus, Theodoric, and

Nestorius. But the person of the aged bishop of Lao-

dicea, his character, and dignity, remained inviolate,

and his rivals, since we may not suspect them of the

weakness of toleration, were astonished, perhaps, by

the novelty of the argument, and diffident of the final

sentence of the Catholic church. Her judgment at

length inclined in their favour; the heresy of Apolli足

naris was condemned, and the separate congregations

of his disciples were proscribed by the imperial laws.

But his principles were secretly entertained in the mo足

nasteries of Egypt, and his enemies felt the hatred of

Theophilus and Cyril, the successive patriarchs of

Alexandria.

v. Ortho- ^' ^e groveNing Ebionite, and the fantas-

doxcou- tic Docetes, were rejected, and forgotten; the

verbal recent zeal against the errors of Apollinaris,

disputes. reduced the Catholics to a seeming agreement

with the double nature of Cerinthus. But, instead of a

temporary and occasional alliance, they established, and

we still embrace, the substantial, indissoluble, and ever足

lasting union of a perfect God with a perfect man, or the

second person of the trinity with a reasonable soul and hu足

man flesh. In the beginning of the fifth century, the unity

of the two natures was the prevailing doctrine of the

church. On all sides, it was confessed, that the mode of

their co-existence could neither be represented by our

ideas, nor expressed by our language. Yet a secret and

incurable discord was cherished between those who were

most apprehensive of confounding, and those who were

