294 ROMAN EMPIRE.

successively ascended the seven heavens, and received

and repaid the salutations of the patriarchs, the prophets,

and the angels, in their respective mansions. Beyond

the seventh heaven, Mahomet alone was permitted to

proceed: he passed the veil of unity, approached within

two bow-shots of the throne, and felt a cold that pierced

him to the heart, when his shoulder was touched by the

hand of God. After this familiar, though important

conversation, he again descended to Jerusalem, remount­

ed the borak, returned to Mecca, and performed in the

tenth part of a night the journey of many thousand

years/ According to another legend, the apostle con­

founded in a national assembly the malicious challenge

of the Koreish. His resistless word split asunder the

orb of the moon: the obedient planet stooped from her

station in the sky, accomplished the seven revolutions

round the Caaba, saluted Mahomet in the Arabian

tongue, and suddenly contracting her dimensions, en­

tered at the collar, and issued forth through the sleeve,

of his shirt.'' The vulgar are amused with these mar­

vellous tales; but the gravest of the Mussulman doctors

imitate the modesty of their master, and indulge a lati­

tude of faith or interpretation.11 They might speciously

allege, that in preaching the religion, it was needless to

'The nocturnal journey is circumstantially related by Abolfeda, (in Vit.
Mnhom-

m<,d. c. 19. p. 33.) who wishes to think it a vision; by Prideaux, (p. 1. 40.)
who

aggravates the absurdities; and by Gagnier, (torn. 1. p. 252—343.) who
declares,

from the zealous Ali Jannabi, that to deny this journey, is to dishelieve the
Koran.

Yet the Koran, without naming either heaven, or Jerusalem, or Mecca, has only

dropped a mysterious hint: Laus illi qui transtulit servum suum ab oratorio
Haram

ad oratorinm remotissimurn. (Koran, c. 17. 5.1. in Maracci, torn. 2. p. 407.
for

Sale's version is more licentious.) A slender basis for the aerial structure
of tra­

dition.

t In the prophetic style, which uses the present or past for t he future,
Mahomet

had said,—Appropinquavit horaet scissaest luna. (Koran, c. 54.5.1. in Maracci,

torn. S. p. 688.) This figure of rhetoric has been converted into a fact,
which is

said to be attested by the most respectable eye-witnesses. (Maracci, torn. 2.

p. 690.) The festival is .still celebrated by the Persians; (Chardin, torn, i,
p. 2 01.)

and the legend is tediously spun out by Gaguier, (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p.
183

—234.) on the faith, as it should seem, of the credulous Al Jannabi. Yet a Ma­

hometan doctor has arraigned the credit of the principal witness; (apud
Focock,

Specimen, p. 187.) the best interpreters are content with the simple sense of
the

Koran; (Al Beidawi, apud Holtinger, Hist. Orient, lib. t. p. 302.) and the
silence

of Abulfeda is worthy of a prince and a philosopher.

h Abulpharagins, in Specimen. Hist. Arab. p. 17. and his scepticism is
justified

in the.notes of Pocock, p. 190—19.1. from the purest authorities.

