CHAP. L. 319

and the caliph alleged the injunction of his dying mas­

ter, that one and the true religion should be professed in

his native land of Arabia/

Submission ^'ve ^mes eacn day tne e7es o^ Mahomet

of Mecca, were turned towards Mecca,2 and he was urged

'by the most sacred and powerful motives, to re­

visit, as a conqueror, the city and temple from whence

he had been driven as an exile. The Caaba was present

to his waking and sleeping fancy: an idle dream was

translated into vision and prophecy; he unfurled the

holy banner; and a rash promise of success too hastily

dropped from the lips of the apostle. His march from

Medina to Mecca displayed the peaceful and solemn

pomp of a pilgrimage; seventy camels, chosen and be­

decked for sacrifice, preceded the van; the sacred ter­

ritory was respected, and the captives were dismissed

without ransom to proclaim his clemency and devotion.

But no sooner did Mahomet descend into the plain,

within a day's journey of the city, than he exclaimed,

they have clothed themselves with the skins of tigers; the

numbers and resolution of the Koreish opposed his pro­

gress; and the roving Arabs of the desert might desert

or betray a leader whom they had followed for the hopes

of spoil. The intrepid fanatic sunk into a cool and cau­

tious politician: he waved in the treaty his title of

apostle of God, concluded with the Koreish and their

allies a truce of ten years, engaged to restore the fugitives

of Mecca who should embrace his religion, and stipu­

lated only, for the ensuing year, the humble privilege of

entering the city as a friend, and of remaining three

days to accomplish the rites of the pilgrimage. A cloud

of shame and sorrow hung on the retreat of the Mus-

> The banishment of the Jews is attested by Klmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 9.) and

the great Al Zabari. (Gagnier, torn. 2. p. 285.) Yet Niebohr (Description de

1'Arabic, p. 324.) believes that the Jewish religion, and Kareite sect, are
still pro­

fessed by the tribe of Chaibar; and that in the plunder of the caravans, the
disci­

ples of Moses are the confederates of those of Mahomet.

* The successive steps of the reduction of Mecca are related by Abulfeda, (p.84  
—87. 97—100. 104—111.) and Gagnier, (torn. 2. p. 209—245, 309—382. torn. 3.

p. 1—58.) Klmacin, (Hilt. Saracen, p. 8—10.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 103.)

