7(5 ROMAN EMPIRE.

V.TH» V." In the rest of the Roman empire, the des-

E°"s_'°Bpotism of the prince might eradicate or silence

the sectaries of an obnoxious creed. But the

stubborn temper of the Egyptians maintained their op>

position to the synod of Chalcedon, and the policy of

Justinian condescended to expect and to seize the op­

portunity of discord. The Monophysite church of Alex-

andriaf was torn by the disputes of the corruptibles and

incorruptibles; and on the death of the patriarch, the

The atri . two ^actions upheld their respective candidates.'

aiehTheo- Gaian was the disciple of Julian, Theodosius

A. D.' had been the pupil of Severus: the claims of the

ssr— see. former were supported by the consent of the

monks and senators of the city and the province; the

latter depended on the priority of his ordination, the

favour of the empress Theodora, and the arms of the

eunuch Narses, which might have been used in more

honourable warfare. The exile of the popular candi­

date to Carthage and Sardinia inflamed the ferment of

Alexandria; and, after a schism of one hundred and

seventy years, the Gaianites still revered the memory

and doctrine of their founder. The strength of numbers

and of discipline was tried in a desperate and bloody

conflict; the streets were filled with the dead bodies of

citizens and soldiers; the pious women ascending the

roofs of the houses, showered down every sharp or pon­

derous utensil on the heads of the enemy; and the final

victory of Narses was owing to the flames with which

he wasted the third capital of the Roman world. But

the lieutenant of Justinian had not conquered in the

cause of a heretic; Theodosius himself was speedily,

though gently removed; and Paul of Tanis, an or­

thodox monk, was raised to the throne of Athanasius.

nicr, (torn. 1. p. 28 — 37.510 — 518.) that rambling jewellar, tpho bad read
nothing.

but had seen so much and so well.

'The history of the Alexandrian patriarchs, from Dioscorus to Benjamin, is
taken

from Renaudot, (p. Ill — 164.) and the second tome of the Annals of Kutyrhins.

* Liberal. Brev. c. 20—23. Victor. Cbron. p. 329, 330. Procop. Anecdot , c.  
26, 27.

