CHAP. XLVIII. 113

have been deceived or subdued by the authority of

Baronius; and Protestant zeal has re-echoed the words

of a cardinal desirous, as it should seem, to favour the

patroness of images. Yet the blind son of Irene sur­

vived many years, oppressed by the court, and for­

gotten by the world; the Isaurian dynasty was silently

extinguished; and the memory of Constantine was re­

called only by the nuptials of his daughter Euphrosyne

with the emperor Michael II.

, The most bigoted orthodoxy has justly exe-

A.D.792, crated the unnatural mother, who may not

°8' ' easily be paralleled in the history of crimes.

To her bloody deed superstition has attributed a sub­

sequent darkness of seventeen days; during which

many vessels in mid-day were driven from their course,

as if the sun, a globe of fire so vast and so remote, could

sympathize with the atoms of a revolving planet. On

earth, the crime of Irene was left five years unpunish­

ed; her reign was crowned with external splendour;

and if she could silence the voice of conscience, she

neither heard or regarded the reproaches of man­

kind. The Roman world bowed to the government of

a female; and as she moved through the streets of Con­

stantinople, the reins of her four milk-white steeds were

held by as many patricians, who marched on foot before

the golden chariot .Jf their queen. But these patricians

were for the most part eunuchs; and their black ingra­

titude justified, on this occasion, the popular hatred and

contempt Raised, enriched, intrusted with the first

dignities of the empire, they basely conspired against

their benefactress: the great treasurer Nicephorus was

.secretly invested with the purple; her successor was in-

.troduced into the palace, and crowned at St. Sophia by

the venal patriarch. In their first interview, she reca­

pitulated with dignity the revolutions of her life, gently

accused the perfidy of Nicephorus, insinuated that he

owed his life to her unsuspicious clemency, and, for the

VOL. vi. i

