CHAP. LI. 423

Arabia; and a string of camels, laden with corn and

provisions, covered almost without an interval the long

road from Memphis to Medina.1 But the genius of

Amrou soon renewed the maritime communication which

had been attempted or achieved by the Pharaohs, the

Ptolemies, or the Caesars; and a canal, at least eighty

miles in length, was opened from the Nile to the Red

sea. This inland navigation, which would have joined

the Mediterranean and the Indian ocean, was soon dis­

continued as useless and dangerous: the throne was

removed from Medina to Damascus; and the Grecian

fleets might have explored a passage to the holy cities of

Arabia."1

Hichesand Of ^s new conquest the caliph Omar had an

populous- imperfect knowledge from the voice of fame and

the legends of the Koran. He requested that

his lieutenant would place before his eyes the realm of

Pharaoh and the Amalekites; and the answer of Amrou

exhibits a lively and not unfaithful picture of that sin­

gular country." 0 commander of (he faithful, Egypt is

a compound of black earth and green plants, between a

pulverized mountain and a red sand. The distance from

Syene to the sea is a month's journey for a horseman.

Along the valley descends a river, on which the blessing

of the Most High reposes both in the evening and morn­

ing, and which rises and falls with the revolutions of

the sun and moon. When the annual dispensation of

Providence unlocks the springs and fountains that nourish

the earth, the Nile rolls his swelling and sounding waters

1 Eutychius, Anna), torn. 2. p. 320. Elmacin, Hist. Saraocn, p. 35.

• On these obscure canals, the reader may try to satisfy himself from
d'Anville,

(Mern. sur 1'Egypte, p. 108—110.124.132.) and a learned thesis maintained and

printed at Strashurg in the year 1770. (Jungendorum marium fluviorumque moli-

mina, p. 39—47. 68—70.) Even the supine Turks have agitated the old project

of joining the two fleas. (Memoires de Baron de Tott, torn. 4.)

"A small volume, des Merveilles, &c. de 1'Egypte, composed in the thirteenth

century by Murtadi of Cairo, and translated from an Arabic MS. of cardinal
Maza-

rin, was published by Pierre Vatier, Paris, 1666. The antiquities of Egypt are

wild and legendary: but the writer deserves credit and esteem for his account
of

the conquest and geography of his native country. (See the correspondence of

Ararou and Omar, p. 279—289.)

