35O ROMAN EMPIRE.

of a popular and hostile race, whom he had injured be­

yond the hope of reconciliation. But Yezid preferred

the councils of mercy: and the mourning family was ho­

nourably dismissed to mingle their tears with their kin­

dred at Medina. The glory of martyrdom superseded

the right of primogeniture; and the twelve IMAMS," or

pontiffs, of the Persian creed, are Ali, Hassan, Hosein,

and the lineal descendants of Hosein to the ninth

generation. Without arms, or treasures, or subjects,

they successively enjoyed the veneration of the peo­

ple, and provoked the jealousy of the reigning ca­

liphs; their tombs at Mecca or Medina, on the banks

of the Euphrates, or in the province of Chorasan, are

still visited by the devotion of their sect. Their names

were often the pretence of sedition and civil war; but

these royal saints despised the pomp of the world, sub­

mitted to the will of God and the injustice of man,

and devoted their innocent lives to the study and prac­

tice of religion. The twelfth and last of the Imams,

conspicuous by the title of Mahadi, or the Guide, sur­

passed the solitude and sanctity of his predecessors. He

concealed himself in a cavern near Bagdad: the time and

place of his death are unknown; and his votaries pre­

tend that he still lives, and will appear before the day of

judgment to overthrow the tyranny of Dejal, or the an­

tichrist/ In the lapse of two or three centuries the

posterity of Abbas, the uncle of Mahomet, had multi­

plied to the number of thirty-three thousand :y the race

of Ali might be equally prolific: the meanest individual

was above the first and greatest of princes; and the

most eminent were supposed to excel the perfection of

angels. But their adverse fortune, and the wide extent

• The general article of Imam, in d'Herbelot's Bibliotheque, will indicate the

succession; and the lives of the twelve are given under their respective
names.

x The name of Antichrist may seem ridiculous, but the Mahometans have libe­

rally borrowed the fables of every religion. (Sale's Preliminary Discourse, p.
80.

88.) In the royal stable of Ispahan, two horses were always kept saddled, tat

for the Mahadi himself, the other for his lieutenant, Jesus the son of Mary,

i In the year of the Hegira 200. (A.D. 815.) See d'Herbelot, p. 546.

