CHAP. XLVIII. 173

with a daughter of the emperor Alexius. His son An-

dronicus is conspicuous only by his cowardice. His

grandson Isaac punished and succeeded the tyrant;

but he was dethroned by his own vices and the ambi-

A D 1204i tion of his brother; and their discord intro-

Apni 12. (Juced the Latins to the conquest of Constan­

tinople, the first great period in the fall of the eastern

empire.

If we compute the number and duration of the reigns,

it will be found, that a period of six hundred years is

filled by sixty emperors, including in the Augustan list

some female sovereigns; and deducting some usurpers

who were never acknowledged in the capital, and some

princes who did not live to possess their inheritance.

The average proportion will allow ten years for each

emperor, far below the chronological rule of Sir Isaac

Newton, who, from the experience of more recent and

regular monarchies, has defined about eighteen or twenty

years as the term of an ordinary reign. The Byzantine

empire was most tranquil and prosperous when it could

acquiesce in hereditary succession; five dynasties, the

Heraclian, Isaurian, Amorian, Basilian, and Comnenian

families, enjoyed and transmitted the royal patrimony

during their respective series of five, four, three, six, and

four generations; several princes number the years of

their reign with those of their infancy: and Constan-

tine VII. and his two grandsons occupy the space of an

entire century. But in the intervals of the Byzantine

dynasties, the succession is rapid and broken, and the

name of a successful candidate is speedily erased by a

more fortunate competitor. Many were the paths that

led to the summit of royalty; the fabric of rebellion was

overthrown by the stroke of conspiracy, or undermined

by the silent arts of intrigue; the favourites of the sol­

diers or people, of the senate or clergy, of the women

and eunuchs, were alternately clothed with the purple;

.the means of their elevation were base, and their end

