CHAP. XLVII. 3

beian garb, their grosser apprehensions were incapable

of discerning their God, who had studiously disguised

his celestial character under the name and person of a

mortal.1 The familiar companions of Jesus of Nazareth

conversed with their friend and countryman, who, in

all the actions of rational and animal life, appeared of

the same species with themselves. His progress from

infancy to youth and manhood was marked by a regu­

lar increase in stature and wisdom; and, after a pain­

ful agony of mind and body, he expired on the cross.

He lived and died for the service of mankind; but the

life and death of Socrates had likewise been devoted to

the cause of religion and justice; and although the Stoic

or the hero may disdain the humble virtues of Jesus, the

tears which he shed over his friend and country may be

esteemed the purest evidence of his humanity. The

miracles of the gospel could not astonish a people who

held, with intrepid faith, the more splendid prodigies of

the Mosaic law. The prophets of ancient days had cured

diseases, raised the dead, divided the sea, stopped the

sun, and ascended to heaven in a fiery chariot. And

the metaphorical style of the Hebrews might ascribe to

a saint and martyr, the adoptive title of SON OF GOD.

Yet in the insufficient creed of the Nazarenes

His Lirth

and eieva- and the Ebionites, a distinction is faintly noticed

between theheretics, who confounded thegenera-

tion of Christ in the common order of nature, and the

less guilty schismatics, who revered the virginity of his

mother, and excluded the aid of an earthly father. The

incredulity of the former was countenanced by the visi­

ble circumstances of his birth, the legal marriage of his

reputed parents, Joseph and Mary, and his lineal claim

to the kingdom of David and the inheritance of Judah.

But the secret and authentic history has been recorded

in several copies of the Gospel according to St. Mat-

*Chry»08tom Damage, (Hist, des Juifs,torn. 5. c. 9. p. 183.) and Athanasius  
(Petav. Dogmat, Theotog. torn. 5. lib. 1 c. 2. p. 3.) are obliged to confess
that the

divinity of Christ is rarely mentioned by himself or his apostles.

B 2

