52 ROMAN EMPIRE.

pose their hands on his deacon and successor Pelagius,

Yet the perseverance of the popes insensibly transferred

to their adversaries the appellation of schismatics: the

Illyrian, African, and Italian churches, were oppressed

by the civil and ecclesiastical powers, not without some

effort of military force ;e the distant barbarians tran­

scribed the creed of the Vatican, and in the period of a

century, the schism of the three chapters expired in an

obscure angle of the Venetian province/ But the re­

ligious discontent of the Italians had already promoted

the conquests of the Lombards, and the Romans them­

selves were accustomed to suspect the faith, and to de­

test the government, of their Byzantine tyrant.

Heres of Justinian was neither steady nor consistent in

Justinian, the nice process of fixing his volatile opinions

A. D. 564.

'and those of his subjects. In his youth, he was

offended by the slightest deviation from the orthodox

line; in his old age he transgressed the measure of tem­

perate heresy, and the Jacobites, not less than the Ca­

tholics, were scandalized by his declaration, that the

body of Christ was incorruptible, and that his man­

hood was never subject to any wants and infirmities, the

inheritance of our mortal flesh. This fantastic opinion

was announced in the last edicts of Justinian; and at

the moment of his seasonable departure, the clergy had

refused to transcribe, the prince was prepared to per­

secute, and the people were resolved to suffer or resist.

A bishop of Treves, secure beyond the limits of his

power, addressed the monarch of the east in the

language of authority and affection. Most gracious

'See the complaints of Liberatus and Victor, and the exhortations of pope

Pelagius to the conqueror and exarch of Italy. Schisma .... per potestates

publicas opprimatur, &c. (Concil. torn. 6. p. 467, &c.) An army was detained
to

suppress the sedition of an Illyrian city. See Procopius: de Iii.ll. Goth.
lib. 4.

c. 25.) m Vff svtxa tfv^wiv a.vrott ot Xginriavoi ^mfjtA'/orra.i, He seems to
promise an

ecclesiastical history. It would have been curious and impartial.

f The bishops of the patriarchate of Aquileia were reconciled by pope
Honorius,

A. D. 638; (Muratori, Annali d'ltalia, torn. 5. p. 376.) but they again
relapsed,

and the schism was not finally extinguished till 698. Fourteen years before,
the

church of Spain had overlooked the fifth general council with contemptuous si­

lence. (13 Concil. Toletan. in Concil. torn. 7. p. 487—494.)

