CHAP. XLVIII. 103

prostrate in chains beneath the throne of the emperor;

and Justinian, planting a foot on each of their necks,

contemplated above an hour the chariot-race, while the

inconstant people shouted, in the words of the psalm­

ist,—Thou shall trample on the asp and basilisk, and on

the lion and dragon shalt thou set thy foot! The uni­

versal defection which he had once experienced might

provoke him to repeat the wish of Caligula, that the Ro­

man people had but one head. Yet I shall presume to

observe, that such a wish is unworthy of an ingenious

tyrant, since his revenge and cruelty would have been ex­

tinguished by a single blow, instead of the slow variety

of tortures which Justinian inflicted on the victims of his

anger. His pleasures were inexhaustible: neither private

virtue nor public service could expiate the guilt of active,

or even passive, obedience to an established government;

and, during the six years of his new reign, he considered

the axe, the cord, and the rack, as the only instruments

of royalty. But his most implicable hatred was pointed

against the Chersonites, who had insulted his exile,, and

violated the laws of hospita^ty. Their remote situation

afforded some means of defence, or at least of escape;

and a grievous tax was imposed on Constantinople, to

supply the preparations of a fleet and army. All are

guilty, and all must perish, was the mandate of Justi­

nian; and the bloody execution was intrusted to his

favourite Stephen, who was recommended by the epithet-

of the savage. Yet even the savage Stephen imper­

fectly accomplished the intentions of his sovereign. The

slowness of his attack allowed the greater part of the in­

habitants to withdraw into the country; and the minister

6f vengeance contented himself with reducing the youth

of both sexes to a state of servitude, with roasting alive

seven of the principal citizens, with drowning twenty in

the sea, and with reserving forty-two in chains to receive

their doom from the mouth of the emperor. In their

return, the fleet was driven on the rocky shores of Ana-

