CHAP. L. 273

at the hour of prayer, was supporting his steps on the

shoulders of two slaves. Alas! (he replied) my coffers

are empty! but these you may sell: if you refuse, I re­

nounce them. At these words, pushing away the youths,

he groped along the wall with his 'staff. The charac­

ter of Hatem is the perfect model of Arabian virtue:"

he was brave and liberal, an eloquent poet and a suc­

cessful robber: forty camels were roasted at his hospi­

table feast; and at the prayer of a suppliant enemy,

he restored both the captives and the spoil. The free­

dom of his countrymen disdained the laws of justice:

they proudly indulged the spontaneous impulse of

pity and benevolence.

The religion of the Arabs," as well as of the Indians,

consisted in the worship of the sun, the moon, and the

fixed stars, a primitive and specious mode of supersti­

tion. The bright luminaries of the sky display the vi­

sible image of a deity: their number and distance con­

vey to a philosophic, or even a vulgar eye, the idea of

boundless space; the character of eternity is marked

on these solid globes, that seem incapable of corrup­

tion or decay; the regularity of their motions may be

ascribed to a principle of reason or instinct; and their

real or imaginary influence encourages the vain belief

that the earth and its inhabitants are the object of their

peculiar care. The science of astronomy was culti­

vated at Babylon; but the school of the Arabs was a

clear firmament and a naked plain. In their .nocturnal

marches, they steered by the guidance of the stars:

their names, and order, and daily station, were familiar

to the curiosity and devption of the Bedoween; and

he was taught by experience to divide in twenty­

"D'Herbelot, Bibliot . Orient, p. 458. Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p.

118. Caab and Hesnus (Pocock, Specimen, p. 43. 46. 48.) were likewise con­

spicuous for i 1 ».•] r liberality; and the latter is elegantly praised by an
Arabian

poet:—" Videbis earn cam accesseris ezultantem, ac si dares illi quod ab
illopetis.''

* Whatever can be known of the idolatry of the ancient Arabians, may be  
found in Pocock. (Specimen, p. 89—136. 163,164.) His profound erudition is

more clearly and concisely interpreted by Sale; (Preliminary Discourse, p. 14—

24.) and Assemanni (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 580—590.) has added some
ralu-

»ble remarks.

VOL. VI. T

