172 ROMAN EMPIRE.

was dragged to the presence of Isaac Angelus, loaded

with fetters, and along chain round his neck. His elo­

quence, and the tears of his female companions, plead­

ed in vain for his life; but, instead of the decencies of

a legal execution, the new monarch abandoned the

criminal to the numerous sufferers, whom he had de­

prived of a father, a husband, or a friend. His teeth

and hair, an eye and a hand, were torn from him, as a

poor compensation for their loss; and a short respite

was allowed, that he might feel the bitterness of death.

Astride on a camel, without any danger of rescue, he

was carried through the city, and the basest of the po­

pulace rejoiced to trample on the fallen majesty of their

prince. After a thousand blows and outrages, Andro-

nicus was hung by the feet between two pillars that sup­

ported the statues of a wolf and sow; and every hand,

that could reach the public enemy, inflicted on his body

some mark of ingenious or brutal cruelty, till two friend­

ly Italians, plunging their swords into his body, released

him from all human punishment. In this long and pain­

ful agony—Lord have mercy on me! and why will you

bruise a broken reed? were the only words that escaped

from his mouth. Our hatred for the tyrant is lost in

pity for the man; nor can we blame his pusillanimous

resignation, since a Greek Christian was no longer mas­

ter of his life.

Isaac ii. I have been tempted to expatiate on the extra-

A^1JSS ordinary character and adventures of Androni-

Sept. 12. cus • but I shall here terminate the series of the

Greek emperors since the time of Heraclius. The

branches that sprang from the Comnenian trunk had

insensibly withered; and the male line was continued

only in the posterity of Andronicus himself, who, in the

public confusion, usurped the sovereignty of Trebizond,

so obscure in history, and so famous in romance. A

private citizen of Philadelphia, Constantine Angelus,.

had emerged to wealth and honours by his marriage

