go ROMAN EMPIRE.

Were obeyed only under the pressure of military force.

A generous effort might have redeemed the religion and

liberty of Egypt, and he* six hundred monasteries might

have pouted forth their myriads of holy warriors, from

whom death should have no terrors, since life had no

comfort or delight. But experience has proved the disA

tinction of active and passive courage; the fanatic wb.6

endures without a groan the torture of the rack or the

stake, would tremble and fly before the face of an armed

enemy. Tire pusillanimous temper of the Egyptians

could only hope for a change of masters; the arms of

Chosroes depopulated the land 5 yet under his reign the

Jacobites enjoyed a short and precarious respite. The

victory of Heraclius renewed and aggravated the perse­

cution, and the patriarch again escaped from Alexandria

to the desert. In his flight, Benjamin was en-

o,e jaco- couraged by a voice, which bade him expect, at

triarc£ the end of ten years, the aid of a foreign nation,

mar^e(l like the Egyptians themselves with the

ancient rite of circumcision. The character of

these deliverers, and the nature of the deliverance,

will be hereafter explained; and I shall step over the

interval of eleven centuries to observe the present mi^

sery of the Jacobites of Egypt. The populous city 6f

Cairo affords a residence or rather a shelter for their

indigent patriarch, and a remnant of ten bishops: forty

monasteries have survived the inroads of the Arabs; and

the progress of servitude and apostacy has reduced the

Goptid nation to the despicable number of twenty-five

6* thirty thousand families ;k a race of illiterate beggars,

whose only consolation is derived from the superior

k This number is taken from the cariousRecherchei sur Irs EgyptienR et IPS CM-

nois, (torn. 2. p. 192,193.) and appears more probable than the six hundred
thousand

mini ut, or fiftron thousand modern, Copts of Gemelli < nrreri. Cyril Lucar,
the

Protestant patriarch of Constantinople, laments that those heretics were ten
times

more mnm-niiis than his orthodox Greeks, ingeniously applying the «hWu» xtv
J.»=-

St; )I[»UTO Mny_iM of Homer, (Iliad. 2. 128.) the most perfect expression of
con­

tempt, (fabric. Lux'tivahgelii, MO. i

