CHAP. XLIX. 213

and poets,0 and the tacit or modest censure of the

advocates of the Roman church/ The popes them­

selves have indulged a smile at the credulity of the

vulgar/ but a false and obsolete title still sanctifies their

reign; and, by the same fortune which has attended the

decretals and the Sibylline oracles, the edifice has sub­

sisted after the foundations have been undermined.

While the popes established in Italy their free-

dom and dominion, the images, the first cause

of tne*r revolt, were restored in the eastern em-

p*re-h Under the reign of Constantino V. the

A.D.780,'union of civil and ecclesiastical power had

overthrown the tree, without extirpating the

root, of superstition. The idols, for such they were

now held, were secretly cherished by the order and the

sex most prone to devotion; and the fond alliance of

the monks and females, obtained a final victory over the

reason and authority of man. Leo IV. maintained with

less rigour the religion of his father and grandfather;

but his wife, the fair and ambitious Irene, had imbibed

the zeal of the Athenians, the heirs of the idolatry,

rather than the philosophy, of their ancestors. During

the life of her husband, these sentiments were inflamed

f The Paladin Astolpho found it in the moon, among the things that were lost

upon earth. (Orlando Furioso, 34. 80.)

Di van fiore ad un grand monte passa,

Ch'ebbe gia buono odore, or puzza forte

Questo era il dono (se pero dir lece)

Che Constantino al buon Silvestro fece.

Yet this incomparable poem has been approved by a bull of Leo X.

f See Baronius, A. D. 324. no. 117—123. A. D. 1191, no. 51, tic. The cardinal

wishes to suppose that Rome was offered by Constantine, and refused by
Silvester.

The act of donation he considers, strangely enough, as a forgery of the
Greeks.

S Baronius n'en dit guerres contre; encore en a-t'il trop dit, et Ton vouloit
sans

moi (Cardinal du Perron), qui 1'empechai, censurer eette partie de son
histoire.

J'en devisai un jonr avec le Pape, et il ne me repondit antre chose " che
volete! I

Canonici la lengono," il le desoit en riant. (Perroniana, p. 77.)

h The remaining history of images, from Irene to Theodora, is collected, for
the

Catholics, by Baronius and Pagi, (A. D. 780—840.) Natalis Alexander, (Hist.

N. T. seculumS. Panoplia adversus Hareticos, p. 118—178. and Dupin: (Bibliot.

Eccles. torn. 6. p. 136—154.) for the Protestants, by Spanheim, (Hist. limit;,
p. 305

—639.) Basnage, (Hist. del'Eglise.torn. 1. p. 556—572. torn. 2. p. 1362—1385.)

and Hosheirn. (Institut. Hist. Eccles. secul. 8. et 9.) The Protestants,
except

Mosheim, are soured with controversy; but the Catholics, except Dupin, are in­

flamed by the fury and superstition of the monks; and even Le Beau (Hist. du.

Bas Empire), a gentleman and a scholar, is infected by the odious contagion.

