CHAP. LII. 511

Capitol was saved from the yoke of the prophet of

Mecca. The same danger still impended on the heads

of the Roman people: and their domestic force was un­

equal to the assault of an African emir. They claimed the

protection of their Latin sovereign; but the Carlovin-

gian standard was overthrown by a detachment of the

barbarians: they meditated the restoration of the Greek

emperors; but the attempt was treasonable, and the

succour remote and precarious/ Their distress appeared

to receive some aggravation from the death of their spi­

ritual and temporal chief; but the pressing emergency

superseded the forms and intrigues of an election; and

the unanimous choice of pope Leo the Fourth' was the

safety of the church and city. This pontiff was bora a

Roman; the courage of the first ages of the republic

glowed in his breast; and, amidst the ruins of his coun­

try, he stood erect, like one of the firm and lofty columns

that rear their heads above the fragments of the Roman

Forum. The first days of his reign were consecrated to

the purification and removal of relics, to prayers and

processions, and to all the solemn offices of religion,

which served at least to heal the imagination, and re­

store the hopes, of the multitude. The public defence

had been long neglected, not from the presumption of

peace, but from the distress and poverty of the times.

As far as the scantiness of his means and the shortness

of his leisure would allow, the ancient walls were re­

paired by the command of Leo; fifteen towers, in the

most accessible stations, were built or renewed; two of

these commanded on either side of the Tyber; and an

'One of the most eminent Bomann (Gratiamis, magurtcr mil it u<n ct Romani

palatii superifita) was accused of declaring, Quia Franci mini nobis boni
faciunt,

Deque adjutorium prabent, sed magia quiu nostra sunt violentcr tollunu Quare

nun advocamus Grscos, et cum eis foedus pacis componentes, Francorum regem

ct gentem de noatro regno et dominatione expeHimusP Anastasins in tieotre IV.

p. 199.

• Voltaire (Hist. Generate, torn. 2. c. 38. p. 124.) appears to be remarkably

Struck with the character of pope Leo IV. I hare borrowed his general expres­

sion, but the sight of the Forum has furnished me with a more distinct and
lively

image. •

