254 ROMAN EMPIRE.

man, who disguised his strength under the semblance

of modesty. At the head of his victorious legions, in

his reign over the sea and land, from the Nile and Eu­

phrates to the Atlantic ocean, Augustus professed him­

self the servant of the state and the equal of his fellow-

citizens. The conqueror of Rome and her provinces

assumed the popular and legal form of a censor, a con­

sul, and a tribune. His will was the law of mankind,

but in the declaration of his laws he borrowed the voice

of the senate and people; and, from their decrees, their

master accepted and renewed his temporary commission

to administer to the republic. In his dress, his domes­

tics/ his titles, in all the offices of social life, Augustus

maintained the character of a private Roman: and his

most artful flatterers respected the secret of his abso­

lute and perpetual monarchy.

CHAP. L.

Description of Arabia and its inhabitants.—Birth, character, and

doctrine of Mahomet.—He preaches at Mecca.—Flies to Medina.

—Propagates his religion by the sword.—Voluntary or reluctant

submission of the Arabs.—His death and successors.—The

claims and fortunes of Ali and his descendants.

AFTER pursuing above six hundred years the fleeting

Czesars of Constantinople and Germany, I now descend,

in the reign of Heraclius, on the eastern borders of the

Greek monarchy. While the state was exhausted by

the Persian war, and the church was distracted by the

Nestorian and Monophysite sects, Mahomet, with the

sword in one hand and the Koran in the other, erected

'Six thousand urns have been discovered of the slaves and freedmen of Augus­

tus and Livia. So minute was the division of office, that one slave was
appointed

to weigh the wool which was spun by the empress's maids, another for the care
of

her lap-dog, &c. (Camere Sepolchrale. &c. by Bianchini. Extract of his work,
in

the Bibliotheque Italique, torn. 4. p. 175. His Eloge, by Fontenelle, torn. 6.
p. 356.)

But these servants were of the same rank, and possibly not more numerous than

those of Pollio or Lentulus. They only prove the general riches of the city.

