CHAP. LII. 53:3

moment in the list of conquest; the emperor Zimisees

encamped in the paradise of Damascus, and accepted

the ransom of a submissive people; and the torrent was

only stopped by the impregnable fortress of Tripoli, on

the sea-coast of Phrem'cia. Since the days of

the EU- Heraclius, the Euphrates, below the passage of

mount Taurus, had been impervious, and almost

invincible, to the Greeks. The river yielded a free pas­

sage to the victorious Zimisees ; and the historian may

imitate the speed with which he overran the once famous

cities of Samosata, Edessa, Martyropolis, Amida," and

Nisibis, the ancient limit of the empire in the neigh­

bourhood of the Tigris. His ardour was quickened by

the desire of grasping the virgin treasures of Ecbatana, "*

a well-known name, under which the Byzantine writer

has concealed the capital of the Abbassides. The con­

sternation of the fugitives had already diffused the ter­

ror of his name; but the fancied riches of Bagdad had

already been dissipated by the avarice and prodigality

Danger of of domestic tyrants. The prayers of the people,

Bagdad. an(l ^ne stern demands of the lieutenant of the

Bowides, required the caliph to provide for the defence

of the city. The helpless Mothi replied, that his arms,

his revenues, and his provinces, had been torn from his

hands, and that he was ready to abdicate a dignity

which he was unable to support. The emir was inexo­

rable; the furniture of the palace was sold; and the

paltry price of forty thousand pieces of gold was instantly

m The text of Leo the Deacon, in the corrupt names of Emeta and Myctarsim,

reveals the cities of Amida and Martyropolis. (Miafarekin. See Abulfeda, Geo-

graph. p. 245. vers. Reiske.) Of the former, Leo observes, urbsmunita
etillustris;

of the latter, clara atque conspicua opibusque et pecore, reliquis ejus
provinciii

urbibus atque oppidis longe prtestans.

b Ut et Echatana pergeret Agarenorumque regiam everteret aiunt enim

urbium qus' usquam sunt ac toto orbe eiistunt felicissimam esse auroque di-

tissimarn. (Leo Diacon. apud Fagium, torn. 4. p. 34.) This splendid descrip­

tion suits only with Bagdad, and cannot possibly apply either to Hamadan, the

true Echatana, (d'Anville, Geog. Ancienne, torn. 2. p. 237.) or Tauris, which
has

commonly been mistaken for that city. The name of Echatana, in the same inde­

finite sense, (a transferred by a more classic authority (Cicero pro Lege
Manili»,

c. 4.) to the royal seat of Mithridcues, king of Fontus.

