CHAP. XLVII. 15

composition, might be compared with those of the Athe­

nian orators. The death of Theophilus expanded and

realized the hopes of his nephew. The clergy of Alex­

andria was divided; the soldiers and their general sup­

ported the claims of the archdeacon; but a resistless

multitude, with voices and with hands, asserted the

cause of their favourite ; and, after a period of thirty-nine

years, Cyril was seated on the throne of Athanasius.*

His ty- The prize was not unworthy of his am-

J&af>'4\3 bition. At a distance from the court, and at

—»i5,&c. (he head of an immense capital, the patriarch,

as he was now styled, of Alexandria, had gradually

usurped the state and authority of a civil magis­

trate. The public and private charities of the city

were managed by his discretion; his voice inflamed

or appeased the passions of the multitude; his com­

mands were blindly obeyed by his numerous and fana­

tic parabolam? familiarized in their daily office with

scenes of death; and the prefects of Egypt were awed

or provoked by the temporal power of these Christian

pontiffs. Ardent in the prosecution of heresy, Cyril

auspiciously opened his reign by oppressing the Nova-

tians, the most innocent and harmless of the sectaries.

The interdiction of their religious worship appeared in

his eyes a just and meritorious act; and he confiscated

their holy vessels, without apprehending the guilt of

sacrilege. The toleration, and even the privileges, of

the Jews, who had multiplied to the number of forty

thousand, were secured by the laws of the Caesars and

• See the youth and promotion of Cyril, in Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 7.) and
Rcnau-

dot. (111,1.' Patriarch. Alexandria, p. 106—108.) The abbfe Renaudot drew his

materials from the Arabic history of Sererus, bishop of Hermopolis Magna, or

Ashmunein, in the tenth century, who can never be trusted, unless our assent
is

extorted by the internal evidence of facts.

a The parabolani of Alexandria were a charitable corporation, instituted
during

the plague of Gallienus, to visit the sick and to bury the dead. They
gradually

enlarged, abused, and sold, the privileges of their order. Their outrageous
conduct

during the reign of Cyril provoked the emperor to deprive the patriarch of
their

nomination, and restrained their number to five or fix hundred. But these re­

straints were transient and ineffectual. See the Theodosian Code, lib. 16.
tit. 2.

andTillemont, Mern. Eccles.torn. 14. p. 376—278.

