278 ROMAN EMPIRE.

They adored the seven gods or angels who directed

the course of the seven planets, and shed their irresis­

tible influence on the earth. The attributes of the

seven planets, with the twelve signs of the zodiac, and

the twenty-four constellations of the northern and

southern hemisphere, were represented by images and

talismans; the seven days of the week were dedicated

to their respective deities: the Sabians prayed thrice

each day; and the temple of the moon at Haran was

the term of their pilgrimage.1 But the flexible genius

of their faith was always ready either to teach or to

learn; in the tradition of the creation, the deluge, and

the patriarchs, they held a singular agreement with

their Jewish captives; they appealed to the secret

books of Adam, Seth, and Enoch: and a slight infusion

of the gospel has transformed the last remnant of the

Polytheists into the Christians of St. John, in the terri-

The Ma- tory of Bassora.™ The altars of Babylon were

gians. overturned by the Magians; but the injuries of

the Sabians were revenged by the sword of Alexander;

Persia groaned above five hundred years under a

foreign yoke; and the purest disciples of Zoroaster

escaped from the contagion of idolatry, and breathed

with their adversaries the freedom of the desert."

Seven hundred years before the death of Ma-

TheJews. Jews were settled in Arabia: and

a far greater multitude was expelled from the holy land

to his systems. The earliest date of the Chaldean observations is the year
23S4

before Christ. After the conquest of Babylon by Alexander, they were commn-

nicated at the request of Aristotle, to the astronomer Hipparchus. What a mo­

ment in the annals of science!

'Pocock, (Specimen, p. 138—146.) Hottinger, (Hist. Oriental, p. 16*— 203.)

Hyde, (de Religione Vet. Persarum, p. 124. 128, &c.) d'Herbelot, (Soti, p.
735,

726.) and Sale, (Preliminary Discourse, p. 14, 15.) rather excite than gratify
our

cariosity; and the last of these writers confounds Sabianism with the
primitive

religion of the Arabs.

« D'Anville (('Euphrates et le Tigre, p. 130—147.) will fix the position of

these ambiguous Christians: Assemannus (Bibliot. Oriental, torn. 4. p.
607—614.)

may explain their tenets. But it is a slippery task to ascertain the creed of
an

ignorant people, afraid and ashamed to disclose their secret traditions.

• The Magi were fixed in the province of Bahrein, (Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet,

lorn. 3. p. 114.) and mingled with the old Arabians. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 146

—1SO.

