CHAP. XLVII. 79

Anathema to them now and for evermore! Naked came

I out of my mother's womb, naked shall I descend into

the grave. Let those who love God, follow me and seek

their salvation. After comforting his brethren, he em­

barked for Constantinople, and sustained, in six suc­

cessive interviews, the almost irresistible weight of the

royal presence. His opinions were favourably enter­

tained in the palace and the city; the influence of The­

odora assured him a safe conduct and honourable dis­

mission; and he ended his days, though not on the

throne, yet in the bosom of his native country. On the

news of his death, Apollinaris indecently feasted the

nobles and the clergy; but his joy was checked by the

intelligence of a new election: and while he enjoyed the

wealth of Alexandria, his rivals reigned in the mona­

steries of Thebais, and were maintained by the voluntary

oblations of the people. A perpetual succession of pa­

triarchs arose from the ashes of Theodosius; and the

Monophysite churches of Syria and Egypt were united

by the name of Jacobites and the communion of the

faith. But the same faith, which has been confined to

a narrow sect of the Syrians, was diffused over the mass

of the Egyptian or Coptic nation; who, almost unani­

mously, rejected the decrees of the synod of Chalcedon.

A thousand years were now elapsed since Egypt had

ceased to be a kingdom, since the conquerors of Asia

and Europe had trampled on the ready necks of a peo­

ple, whose ancient wisdom and power ascend beyond the

records of history. The conflict of zeal and persecution

rekindled some sparks of their national spirit. They

abjured, with a foreign heresy, the manners and language

of the Greeks: every Melchite, in their eyes, was a

stranger, every Jacobite a citizen; the alliance of mar­

riage, the offices of humanity, were condemned as a

deadly sin; the natives renounced all allegiance to the

emperor; and his orders, at a distance from Alexandria,

