118 ROMAN EMPIRE.

t.'f ,

A memorable reverse of fortune was displayed

in Michael II. who, from a defect in his speech,

"was surnamed the Stammerer. He was snatched

. , . .

820, Dec. from the fiery furnace to the sovereignty of

an empire; and as in the tumult a smith could

not readily be found, the fetters remained on his legs

several hours after he was seated on the throne of the

Ceesars. The royal blood which had been the price of

his elevation, was unprofitably spent; in the purple he

retained the ignoble vices of his origin; and Michael

lost his provinces with as supine indifference as if they

had been the inheritance of his fathers. His title

was disputed by Thomas, the last of the military trium­

virate, who transported into Europe fourscore thousand

barbarians from the banks of the Tigris, and the shores

of the Caspian. He formed the siege of Constantino­

ple; but the capital was defended wlth spiritual and

carnal weapons; a Bulgarian king assaulted the camp

of the orientals, and Thomas had the misfortune or the

weakness to fall alive into the power of the conqueror.

The hands and feet "of the rebel were amputated; he

was placed on an ass, and, amidst the insults of the

people, was led through the streets, which he sprinkled

with his blood. The depravation of manners, as savage

as they were corrupt, is marked by the presence of the

emperor himself. Deaf to the lamentations of a fellow-

soldier, he incessantly pressed the discovery of more

accomplices, till his curiosity was checked by the ques­

tion of an honest or guilty minister, — Would you give

credit to an enemy against the most faithful of your

friends? After the death of his first wife, the emperor,

at the request of the senate, drew from her monastery

Euphrosyne, the daughter of Constantine VI. Her

august birth might justify a stipulation in the marriage*

contract, that her children should equally share the em­

pire with their elder brother. But the nuptials of Mi­

chael and Euphrosyne were barren; and she was con­

