4UO ROMAN EMPIRE.

almost the same. The acclamations of the people sa­

luted his landing on the coast of Andalusia; and, after

a successful struggle, Abdalrahman established the

throne of Cordova, and was the father of the Ommiades

of Spain, who reigned above two hundred and fifty years

from the Atlantic to the Pyrennees.q He slew in battle

a lieutenant of the Abbassides, who had invaded his do­

minions with a fleet and army: the head of Ala, in salt

and camphire, was suspended by a daring messenger

before the palace of Mecca; and the caliph Almansor

rejoiced in his safety, that he was removed by seas and

lands from such a formidable adversary. Their mutual

designs or declarations of offensive war evaporated with­

out effect; but instead of opening a door to the conquest

of Europe, Spain was dissevered from the trunk of the

monarchy, engaged in perpetual hostility with the east,

and inclined to peace and friendship with the Christian

sovereigns of Constantinople and France. The example

of the Ommiades was imitated by the real or fictitious

Triple di- progeny of Ali, the Edrissites of Mauritania, and

thTca-°f the more powerful Fatimites of Africa and Egypt.

Hphate. In the tenth century, the chair of Mahomet was

disputed by three caliphs or commanders of the faithful,

who reigned at Bagdad, Cairoan, and Cordova, excom­

municated each other, and agreed only in a principle of

discord, that a sectary is more odious and criminal than

an unbeliever.1

Magni- Mecca was the patrimony of the line of Ha-

of "the" shem, yet the Abbassides were never tempted to

rairphs, resi(ie either in the birth-place or the city of the

750—790. prophet. Damascus was disgraced by the choice,

and polluted with the blood, of the Ommiades; and after

i For the revolution of Spain, consult Roderic of Toledo, (c. 18. p. 34, &c.)
the

Bibliotheca Arabico-Hispana, (torn.2. p. 30.198.) and Cardonne. (Hist, do
1'Afrique

et de riispagne.torn. 1. p. 180—197. 205. 272. 323, &c.)

'I shall not stop to refute the strange errors and fancies of sir William
Temple

(his works, vol. 3. p. 371—374. octavo edition) and Voltaire (Histoire
General*,

c. 28. torn. 2. p. 124, 125. edition de Lausanne), concerning the division of
the Sa­

racen empire. The mistakes of Voltaire proceeded from the want of knowledge

or reduction ; but sir William was deceived by a Spanish impostor, who has
framed

an apocryph al history of the conquest of Spain by the Arabs.

