CHAP. XI/VTII. 159

bat; and the gigantic champions, who encountered his

arm, were transpierced by the lance, or cut asunder by

the sword, of the invincible Manuel. The story of his

exploits, which appear as a model or a copy of the ro­

mances of chivalry, may induce a reasonable suspicion

of the veracity of the Greeks: I will not, to vindicate

their credit, endanger my own; yet I may observe, that

in the long series of their annals, Manuel is the only

prince who has been the subject of similar exaggeration.

With the valour of a soldier, he did not unite the skill

or prudence of a general: his victories were not produc­

tive of any permanent or useful conquest; and his Turk­

ish laurels were blasted in his last unfortunate campaign,

in which he lost his armies in the mountains of Pisidia,

and owed his deliverance to the generosity of the sultan.

But the most singular feature in the character of Manuel,

is the contrast of labour and sloth, of hardiness and

effeminacy. In war he seemed ignorant of peace; in

peace he appeared incapable of war. In the field he

slept in the sun or in the snow, tired in the longest

marches the strength of his men and horses, and shared

with a smile the abstinence or diet of the camp. No

sooner did he return to Constantinople, than he resign­

ed himself to the arts and pleasure of a life of luxury:

the expense of his dress, his table, and his palace, sur­

passed the measure of his predecessors, and whole sum­

mer days were idly wasted in the delicious isles of the

Propontis, in the incestuous love of his niece Theodora.

The double cost of a warlike and dissolute prince, ex­

hausted the revenue, and multiplied the taxes; and

Manuel, in the distress of his last Turkish camp, endured

a bitter reproach from the mouth of a desperate soldier.

As he quenched his thirst, he complained that the water

of a fountain was mingled with Christian blood. It is

not the first time (exclaimed a voice from the crowd)

that you have drank, 0 emperor! the blood of your

Christian subjects. Manuel Comnenus was twice mar-

