CHAP. XLVII. 35

condemned in the opinion of his judges. The orientals,

less adverse to Nestorius than to Cyril, accepted the

Romans as their deliverers: Thrace, and Pontus, and

Asia, were exasperated against the murderer of Flavian,

and the new patriarchs of Constantinople and Antioch

secured their places by the sacrifice of their benefactor.

The bishops of Palestine, Macedonia, and Greece, were

attached to the faith of Cyril; but in the face of the sy­

nod, in the heat of the battle, the leaders, with their ob­

sequious train, passed from the right to the left wing,

and decided the victory by this seasonable desertion.

Of the seventeen suffragans who sailed from Alexandria,

four were tempted from their allegiance, and the thir­

teen, falling prostrate on the ground, implored the mercy

of the council, with sighs and tears, and a pathetic de­

claration, that if they yielded, they should be massacred,

on their return to Egypt, by the indignant people. A

tardy repentance was allotted to expiate the guilt or

error of the accomplices of Dioscorus: but their sins

were accumulated on his head; he neither asked nor

hoped for pardon, and the moderation of those who

pleaded for a general amnesty, was drowned in the pre­

vailing cry of victory and revenge. To save the repu­

tation of his late adherents, some personal offences were

skilfully detected — his rash and illegal excommunication

of the pope, and his contumacious refusal (while he was

detained a prisoner) to attend the summons of the synod.

Witnesses were introduced to prove the special facts of

his pride, avarice, and cruelty; and the fathers heard

with abhorrence, that the alms of the church were lavish­

ed on the female dancers, that his palace, and even his

bath, was open to the prostitutes of Alexandria, and that

the infamous Pansophia, or Irene, was publicly enter­

tained as the concubine of the patriarch/

n iia\wftm Opium (perhaps Eifwii), wsfi «

a$nxi $imv almt tt xai nu ffafrm fti

(Concil. torn. 4. p. 1276.) A specimen of the wit and malice of the people is
pre­

served in the Greek Anthology (lib. 2. c. 5. p. 188. edit. Wechel), although
the

D 2

