288 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the permission of evil under the reign of infinite power

and infinite goodness.

Mahomet The God of nature has written his existence

on all his works, and his law in the heart of

the last of mani To restore the knowledge of the one and

the pro- ~

pheu. the practice of the other, has been the real or

pretended aim of the prophets of every age; the liberality

of Mahomet allowed to his predecessors the same cre­

dit which he claimed for himself; and the chain of in­

spiration was prolonged from the fall of Adam to the

promulgation of the Koran.1 During that period, some

rays of prophetic light had been imparted to one hun­

dred and twenty-four thousand of the elect, discrimi­

nated by their respective measures of virtue and grace;

three hundred and thirteen apostles were sent with a

special commission to recall their country from idolatry

and vice; one hundred and four volumes had been

dictated by the holy spirit; and six legislators of trans­

cendent brightness have announced to mankind the six

successive revelations of various rites, but of one im­

mutable religion. The authority and station of Adam,

Noah. Abraham, Moses, Christ, and Mahomet, rise in

just gradation above each other; but whosoever hates

or rejects any one of the prophets is numbered with the

infidels. The writings of the patriarchs were extant only

in the apocryphal copies of the Greeks and Syrians:™ the

conductof Adam had not entitled him to the gra­

titude or respect of his children: the seven pre­

cepts of Noah were observed by an inferior and imperfect

class of the proselytes of the synagogue," and the me­

mory of Abraham was obscurely revered by the Sabians

I Reland, de Belig. Moharn. lib. 1. p. 17 — 47. (Sale's Preliminary Discourse,

p. 73 — 76.; Voyage de dunlin, torn. 4. p. 18 — 37. and 37 — 47. for the
Persian

addition, " Ali is the vicar of God - 1 Yet the precise number of prophets is
not an

article of faith.

a For the apocryphal books of Adam, see Fabricius, Codex Pseudepigraphut

V.T. p. 27—29; of Seth, p. 154—157; of Enoch, p. 160— 219. But the book of

Enoch is cansecrated, in some measure, by the quotation of the apostle of St.
Jude;

and a long legendary fragment is alleged by Syncellus and Scaliger.

II The seven precepts of Noah are explained by Marsham, (Canon Chronical,

p. 154 — 180.) who adopts, on this occasion, the learnmg and credulity of
Seldeu.

