CHAP. XLVIII. 155

Jdm or I* was tne w*sn of Irene to supplant the eldest

C"10- of her surviving sons, in favour of her daugh-

Johanms, . °' °

A. D. 1118, ter, the princess Anna, whose philosophy would

Angost is. not have jefose^ tne weigQt of a diadem. But

the order of male succession was asserted by the friends

of their country; the lawful heir drew the royal signet

from the finger of his insensible or conscious father, and

the empire obeyed the master of the palace. Anna

Comnena was stimulated by ambition and revenge to

conspire against the life of her brother; and when the

design was prevented by the fears or scruples of her

husband, she passionately exclaimed, that nature had

mistaken the two sexes, and had endowed Bryennius

with the soul of a woman. The two sons of Alexius,

John and Isaac, maintained the fraternal concord, the

hereditary virtue of their race: and the younger bro-.

ther was content with the title of Sebastocrator, which

approached the dignity, without sharing the power, of

the emperor. In the same person, the claims of primo­

geniture and merit were fortunately united; his swarthy

complexion, harsh features, and diminutive stature, had

suggested the ironical surname of Calo-Johannis, or

John the Handsome, which his grateful subjects more

seriously applied to the beauties of his mind. After

the discovery of her treason, the life and fortune of

Anna were justly forfeited to the laws. Her life was

spared by the clemency of the emperor; but he visited

the pomp and treasures of her palace, and bestowed

the rich confiscation on the most deserving of his friends.

That respectable friend, Axuch, a slave of Turkish ex­

traction, presumed to decline the gift, and to intercede

for the criminal; his generous master applauded and

imitated the virtue of his favourite, and the reproach or

complaint of an injured brother was the only chastise­

ment of the guilty princess. After this example of cle­

mency, the remainder of his reign was never disturbed

by conspiracy or rebellion: feared by his nobles, be­

