CHAP. L. 293

splendid prodigies; and Mahomet was repeatedly urged,

by the inhabitants of Mecca and Medina, to produce a

similar evidence of his divine legation; to call down

from heaven the angel or the volume of his revelation,

to create a garden in the desert, or to kindle a confla­

gration in the unbelieving city. As often as he is

pressed by the demands of the Koreish, he involves

himself in the obscure boast of vision and prophecy,

appeals to the internal proofs of his doctrine, and shields

himself behind the providence of God, who refuses

those signs and wonders that would depreciate the merit

of faith and aggravate the guilt of infidelity. But the

modest or angry tone of his apologies betrays his weak­

ness and vexation; and these passages of scandal, esta­

blish beyond suspicion, the integrity of the Koran.d

The votaries of Mahomet are more assured than himself

of his miraculous gifts, and their confidence and credu­

lity increase as they are farther removed from the time

and place of his spiritual exploits. They believe or af­

firm that trees went forth to meet him: that he was sa­

luted by stones; that water gushed from his fingers,

that he fed the hungry, cured the sick, and raised the

dead; that a beam groaned to him; that a camel com­

plained to him; that a shoulder of mutton informed him

of its being poisoned; and that both animate and inani­

mate nature were equally subject to the apostle of God.*

His dream of a nocturnal journey is seriously described

as a real and corporeal transaction. A mysterious ani­

mal, the borak, conveyed him from the temple of Mecca

to that of Jerusalem: with his companion Gabriel, he

* See more remarkably, Koran, c.2. 6.12,13. 17. Prideaux (Life of Mahomet,  
p. 18,19.) has confounded the impostor. Maracci, with a more learned appara­

tus, has shewn that the passages which deny his miracles are clear and
positive,

(Alcoran, torn. 1. part 2. p. 7—12.) and those which seem to assert them, are
am­

biguous and insufficient, (p. 12—22. j

'• See the Specimen Hist. Arabum, the text of Abulpharagius, p. 17. the no es
of

Pocock, p. 187—190. d'Herbelot Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 76, 77. Voyages de

Cbardin, torn. 4. p. 200—203. Maracci (Alcoran, torn. 1. p. 22—64.) has most

laboriously collected and confuted the miracles and prophecies of Mahomet,
which,

according to some writers, amount to three thousand.

