222 ROMAN EMPIRE.

the imperial title was the object of his ambition, and a

Roman senate had pronounced, that it was the only

adequate reward of his merit and services.11

The appellation of great has often been be-

character stowed and sometimes deserved, but CHARLE-

is the only prince in whose favour the

nas been indissolubly blended with the

name. That name, with the addition of saint,

is inserted in the Roman calendar; and the saint, by a

rare felicity, is crowned with the praises of the histo­

rians and philosophers of an enlightened age.0 His real

merit is doubtless enhanced by the barbarism of the na­

tion and the times from which he emerged; but the ap­

parent magnitude of an object is likewise enlarged by an

unequal comparison; and the ruins of Palmyra derive a

casual splendour from the nakedness of the surrounding

desert. Without injustice to his fame, I may discern some

blemishes in the sanctity and greatness of the restorer of

the western empire. Of his moral virtues, chastity is not

the most conspicuous ;d but the public happiness could

not be materially injured'by his nine wives orconcubines,

the various indulgence of meaner or more transient

amours, the multitude of his bastards whom he bestowed

on the church, and the long celibacy and licentious man­

ners of his daughters,6 whom the father was suspected

b This great event of the translation or restoration of the empire, is related
and

discussed by Natalis Alexander, (secul. 9. dissert. 1. p 390—397.) Pagi,
(torn. 3.

p. 418.) Muratori, (Annali d'ltalia, torn. 6. p. 339—352.) Sigonius, (de Rcgno

Italia, lib. 4. Opp. torn. '_'. p. 247—351.) Spanheim (de ficta Translatione
Imperil),

Giannone, (torn. 1. p. 395—405.) St. Marc, (Abr£ge Chonologique.torn. 1. p.
438

—450.) Gaillard. (Hist, de Charlemagne, torn. 2. p. 386—446.) Almost all these

moderns have some religious or national bias.

c By Mably (Observations surl'Histoire de France),Voltaire (Histoire
Generale),

Robertson, (History of Charles V.) and Montesquieu. (Esprit des Loix,lib. 31.

c. 18.) In the year 1785, M. Gaillard published his Histoire de Charlemagne
(in four

vols. duodecimo), which I have freely and profitably used. The author is a man
of

sense and humanity: and his work is laboured with industry and eloquence. But
I

have likewise examined the original monuments of the reigns of Pepin and
Charle­

magne, in the fifth volume of the historians of France.

'' The vision of Weltin, composed by a monk, eleven years after the death of

Charlemagne, shews him in purgatory, with a vulture who is perpetually gnawing

the guilty member, while the rest of his body, the emblem of his virtues, is
sound

and perfect. (See Gaillard, torn. 2. p. 317—360.)

'The marriage of Eginhard with Imma, daughter of Charlemagne, is, in my

opinion, sufficiently refuted by the probum and fuipicio that sullied these
fair dam­

