CHAP. XLVIII. 115

trolling the ambition of his equals, or of resisting the

arms of the victorious Bulgarians. While his want of

ability and success exposed him to the contempt of the

soldiers, the masculine spirit of his wife Procopia

awakened their indignation. Even the Greeks of the

ninth century were provoked by-the insolence of a fe­

male, who, in the front of the standards, presumed to

direct their discipline and animate their valour; and

their licentious clamours advised the new Semiramis to

reverence the majesty of a Roman camp. After an

unsuccessful campaign, the emperor left, in their winter

quarters of Thrace, a disaffected army under the com­

mand of his enemies; and their artful eloquence per­

suaded the soldiers to break the dominion of the eu­

nuchs, to degrade the husband of Procopia, and to

assert the right of a military election. They marched

towards the capital; yet the clergy, the senate, and the

people of Constantinople, adhered to the cause of Mi­

chael; and the troops and treasures of Asia might have

protracted the mischiefs of civil war. But his huma­

nity (by the ambitious it will be termed his weakness)

protested, that not a drop of Christian blood should be

shed in his quarrel, and his messengers presented the

conquerors with the keys of the city and the palace.

They were disarmed by his innocence and submission;

his life and his eyes were spared; and the imperial

monk enjoyed the comforts of solitude and religion

above thirty-two years after he had been stripped of

the purple and separated from his wife.

Leo v. the A rebel in the time of Nicephorus, the fa-

A™!^,' mous and unfortunate Bardanes, had once the

Joiyii. curiosity to consult an Asiatic prophet, who,

after prognosticating his fall, announced the fortunes

of his three principal officers, Leo the Armenian, Mi­

chael the Phrygian, and Thomas the Cappadocian, the

successive reigns of the two former, the fruitless and

fatal enterprise of the third. This prediction was veri­

i 2

